the adopted home world of Bjork what are
you now the reason we have to talk about
Earth tonight is this president Trump
revealing his decision to the country to
the world we're out
he says pulling out of the Paris climate
Accord I was elected to represent the
citizens of Pittsburgh not Paris okay
first relax no one for a second thought
that you represented Paris hardly
because everyone knows Paris is
represented by a smoking french bulldog
who found the first course to be
derivative and jiazhen
but it is true this week Trump announced
he would pull out of the Paris climate
agreement which is hardly surprising as
a title it is so off-brand for him it
might as well have been called the
globalist cuck surrender or a light jog
yet yet pulling out of this is a huge
deal and to understand why it helps to
keep in mind one key number and it's two
degrees Celsius now it's a bit of a
shorthand but the concern is that if we
fail to limit temperature rise to that
number things get very bad and
potentially irreversible scientists say
will likely see longer droughts and more
intense heat waves which can cause big
disruptions to the world's food supply
if we don't start with rapid emissions
reductions and substantial emissions
reductions that will pass a danger point
beyond which the consequences for many
people and countries on earth will
simply become unacceptable and
eventually disastrous it's true and we
are not talking about a fictional
apocalypse like the one in the movie
2012 we're talking about an actual
global disaster like the movie 2012
and the serious danger may actually be
more imminent than you think one
estimate says that to have a good chance
of avoiding the two-degree threshold
human emissions of co2 should stay below
this level in total this is our
so-called carbon budget and by the end
of last year we were estimated to
already be up to here and if current
emission trends continue we would go
above that critical line in about 20
years and that is not a long time 20
years ago South Park was on TV Foo
Fighters were touring and Paul Rudd
looked like this what I'm saying is 20
years ago was basically now so the Paris
agreement central aim was to try and
keep our global temperature rise below
that 2 degree threshold and to do that
each signatory would set their own goals
with a plan to reconvene every five
years to ideally set more ambitious
targets and look it was not perfect
some critics at the time felt that it
did not go far enough that the key
achievement was for the very first time
getting virtually the entire world
including China and India to commit to
taking action it was a historic moment
and it was celebrated like this through
the moments the world agreed to tackle
climate change Jacques Lecoq of e
Curitiba is accepted and so the Paris
agreement was born and emotions spilled
over so much so that Lawrence Tobias
bang the gavel again on the labelled
closure ad so I have been asked to bang
the gavel again it's a little gavel but
I think it can do great things
ok ok
I'll say this if you are trying to
convince people of the gravity of a
moment maybe don't use such a
humiliatingly shifting gavel because it
just undercuts what you're trying to say
it would not be appropriate for a judge
to conclude a death penalty case by
saying I hereby sentence you to hang by
the neck until dead may God have mercy
upon your soul right solemn moment
solemn moment for everybody so so so why
did Trump announced that he would pull
out this week well one clue may have
come during his speech on Thursday when
he actually talked about that happy
celebration that you just saw but seem
to see something sinister in it the rest
of the world applauded when we signed
the Paris agreement they weren't wild
they were so happy for the simple reason
that it put our country the United
States of America which we all love in a
very very big economic disadvantage what
are you talking about
they were happy because they secured a
landmark victory for the future of the
planet you fucking egomaniac whoa this
race is firing against the United States
the only thing the whole world is
secretly conspiring to do is convince
everyone but there are two Olsen twins
there is no way it is just one girl
moving very quickly backwards and
forwards it's an obstacle illusion the
Olsen twins thing is a massive scam and
the whole world is in on it and the only
thing I don't quite know yet is why but
we don't have time to get into it the
point is if the agreement was a scheme
to hurt American businesses you know who
that might be news to many American
businesses because they were not just in
favor of this Agreement they even made a
last-ditch attempt to change Trump's
mind 25 companies including Microsoft
and Intel have purchased a full-page ad
in today's New York Times arguing the
agreement generates jobs and economic
growth
well come on he was clearly never going
to be convinced by an ad in The New York
Times how was he going to see it if
those companies willing
wanted to get into intention they needed
to talk KFC into putting out a full
bucket ad which he would read on the
toilet while eating chicken because that
at its core is who our president is but
but it turns out it turned out that
rather than listening to those companies
the president was getting advice from
climate change skeptics like if EPA
chief scott pruett and human custody
hearing c banner although really
transactions were in keeping with a
long-held schedules of being as
concerning climate change he has called
it expensive bullshit and a hoax created
by china and he repeatedly brought that
idea up on the campaign trail often
before losing track of what he was
talking about and performing real-time
word-association
china is it abiding by anything they're
buying all of our coal we can't use coal
anymore essentially they're buying our
con they're using it now when you talk
about the planet it's so big out there
we're here they're there it's like
they're our next-door neighbor right in
terms of the universe Miss Universe by
the way I've made a great deal when I
sold oh did I get rid I was a great year
huh you know they broke my choppers on
that they said he talks about illegal
immigration we're not gonna put him on
televisions being sued like crazy you
wouldn't believe and NBC I made a great
deal with them just like an amazing deal
why can't you finish your thought why
can't you finish I thought that was 36
seconds touching on at least seven
different topics including the non
phrase broke my choppers and yet he did
not conclude a single thought there
ain't goldfish with me about squeazy go
hey focus get back to China we were
talking about China what is wrong with
this gold turn I'm drowning
and look when you combine Trump's lack
of attention to detail with his
deep-rooted paranoia you get the wildly
misleading reasons that he cited on
Thursday for pulling out of Paris for
instance he seemed to think the
agreement committed America to shutting
down coal-fired power plants China will
be allowed to build hundreds of
additional coal plants so we can't build
the plant but they can according to this
agreement India will be allowed to
double its coal production by 2020 think
of it India can double their coal
production we're supposed to get rid of
errors okay for the record the agreement
doesn't actually ban America from
building coal cars it doesn't even
contain the word coal each each country
sets its own goals that they can meet
however it wants so that is what that's
just wrong as if the fact that Trump
said in this speech America would
continue to be the cleanest and most
environmentally friendly country on
Earth which is objectively untrue
because over history the US has emitted
by far more carbon than any other
country and we still emits more per
person than almost any other nation so
that's like Mark Wahlberg saying he's
going to continue to be the best dentist
on the planet how how are you going to
do that that's not what you are Mark
maybe you could decide to do that one
day but you're definitely not doing it
now then there is Tom's concern over the
Green Climate Fund which finances
projects in developing nations helping
them adapt to the impact of climate
change and reduce their emissions what
now as Trump describes that fund the
Green Fund would likely obligate the
United States to commit potentially tens
of billions of dollars of which the
United States has already handed over 1
billion dollars nobody else is even
close ok ok now to his credit that is
actually an impressive amount of
misleading bullshit in very few words in
fact here is everything that he just
said let's break those words down first
the green fund
is not called the green fund it's called
the Green Climate Fund I know but still
friends would likely obligate the United
States to commit money there is no
enforcement mechanism in the Paris
agreement the US could just easily
refuse to pay the bill something Donald
Trump has a lifetime of practicing
absolute potentially pain of billions of
dollars
no we committed three billion dollars
you can't just inflate three to
potentially tens I can't say that you
have had potentially tens of failed
marriages
I can only say you've had three because
you have you have had three failed
marriages and yes I'm very much
including your current one and finally
finally nobody else is even close to
paying more that is just willfully
misleading well we have given the most
so far in sheer dollars we are one of
the richest countries and one of the top
emitters and when you rank contributions
as a fraction of GDP we are
thirty-second so Trump's description of
the agreement is so flamboyantly
deceptive it would have been equally
accurate thing to say compliance with
the Paris agreement would likely require
all Ducks to wear jean shorts and it
would potentially cost each and every
American citizen five fish and a dump
truck full of hamsters that would be as
true as what he just said and even even
when he tried to strike a reassuring
tone he got it wrong
so we're getting out but we will start
to negotiate and we will see if we can
make a deal that's fair and if we can
that's great and if we can't that's fine
except no it is not fine is it because
the leaders of Germany France and Italy
said in a statement we firmly believe
that the Paris agreement cannot be
renegotiated and I would not test
Europe's leaders when it comes to
pulling out of a major international
agreement Britain is trying that
bullshit right now with brexit and maybe
you can send your demands to the same
email address that you are upset up for
that
it's lick dot our nuts go fuck
yourselves start a you soap
from align drop them align tell answer
but but I have saved France most
ludicrous misunderstanding of the
agreement for last because for a man who
cites the agreement strict onerous and
draconian terms what he does not seem to
comprehend is each nation sets its own
goals remember and more importantly the
whole thing is fucking voluntary the
agreement as a whole is not legally
binding and doesn't penalize nations who
fail to meet their commitments but it
does include a process designed to shame
them into compliance it's true the only
penalty was shame and unfortunately this
president is completely immune to the
very concept of that if they even tries
to shame him into compliance he could
just hold up this photo of him in a too
short bathrobe and what appears to be a
child's bed and say I posed for that you
cannot hurt me any more than I've
already hurt myself and at this point
you may be thinking well hold on if it's
all voluntary then what is the harm in
leaving well the truth is its
substantial and let's start with just
the harm to America's standing in the
world alone because Trump's decision to
leave this Agreement has pissed off
almost everyone this morning German
Chancellor Angela Merkel called it
extremely regrettable Canadian Prime
Minister Justin Trudeau called it
disheartening and the Vatican went
further saying mr. Trump's decision was
a disaster for everyone Wow think about
that we are getting shit talks by the
Vatican and not by the Nazi Punk the
cool one that's worse that is like
getting into a Twitter fight with the
Dalai Lama he he doesn't snap up him but
when he snaps his cap card and not that
reputational harm can have real costs
for businesses abroad one environmental
negotiator who worked in the George W
Bush administration described this
decision as the worst thing for brand
America since Abu Ghraib and that is
rough because a bad Association can
stick with a brand for a long time just
ask sexual assault pudding cups double
murder car rentals or mr. touchies fresh
and tasty pedo sandwiches
and then then there is a harm to
American workers the very people Trump
is claiming to protect because most of
the world now realizes that in order to
reduce emissions we need to shift to
renewable forms of energy and the more a
government encourages that the faster it
happens the quicker costs come down and
the more likely that that country is to
be at the forefront of a whole new
industry creating countless jobs in the
process and you know who knows that
China or some would say China Trump just
handed a huge advantage to them they've
not only cancelled plans to build more
than 100 coal-fired power plants they're
also dramatically increasing investment
elsewhere china plans to spend more than
three hundred sixty billion dollars on
renewable energy by 2020 which it says
will create at least 13 million new jobs
so you know what in a way Trump is
fulfilling his campaign promise he is
creating millions of new jobs he's just
doing it for the wrong fucking country
and if you want proof that the jobs of
today and tomorrow are in renewable
energy Francis knew prescient in manual
macron actually issued a call this week
to America's workforce to all scientists
and Chinese entrepreneurs responsible
citizens were were disappointed by the
decision of the President of the United
States I want to see that they was fined
in France the surgham homeland Eichorn
them come and work here with us I guess
what he's saying there is be our guest
be our guest what else
sell this to the test iron Africa danke
you know what we don't have time for
this filled without I'm sorry I'm sorry
I'm sorry Olivia
I'm sorry mrs. Potts I'm sorry Cogsworth
you got to go you got to go
click Rococo get the fuck out of here
you little fuckers get out get out
the real concern the real concern the
real real concern here is that America's
absence from the Paris agreement could
make other countries less inclined to
meet their commitments and remember that
could quickly become catastrophic and
that brings us to our final point given
that we cannot afford just to wait for
years to vote Trump out of office what
can be done now
well for starters companies need to
continue to step up and to their credit
some like Walmart and Bank of America
have set deadlines to power themselves
completely with renewable energy and
nearly half of the fortune 500 companies
including Philip Morris International
have pledged to reduce their carbon
footprint in the coming years that is
right this is a story where Walmart Bank
of America and Philip Morris end up
being the good guys which just feels
inherently surprising it's like I just
said great news everyone
Ebola Isis and that dentist who shot
Cecil the lion are gonna save the planet
for us thanks I give the bet you are the
deck and look look it is not just
company stepping up in the wake of
Trump's decision multiple governors have
announced their intention to hold
themselves to the Paris agreement goals
as have many met including notably the
mayor of Pittsburgh you know the city
that Trump cited as the reason he was
pulling out of the agreement then there
Bill Peduto was pretty clear about what
he thinks about Trump's decision
Pittsburgh is the poster child of
showing why the Paris agreement is good
economics for the United States in what
we did today sets us back decades
Wow that is pleasantly surprising on so
many levels not the least of which is I
had always just assumed that Pittsburgh
there was a Heinz ketchup drank Lombardi
trophies so we're all learning a lot of
things tonight but what this means is
that the onus is now on politicians at
the state and local level to do what
Donald Trump cannot be bothered to and
unfortunately that means that you now
need to find out where your mayor your
governor and even your state reps stand
on climate change and first you'll have
to find out who they are but then then
you will need to find out their
positions and look
you'll get lucky maybe yours is great or
maybe you live in Pennsylvania and
you're represented by state senator
Scott Wagner who has an interesting
theory for what might be causing global
warming the earth moves closer to the
Sun every year we have more people you
know humans have warm body so is keep
coming off we're just going through a
lot of change but I think we are as a
society doing the best we can I don't
even know where to begin Ben I mean yes
the earth does move closer to the Sun
every year but then it moves further
away from the Sun because that is what a
fucking year is our body heat is not
warming the planet and we are clearly
not doing the best we can because we
keep putting idiots like Scott Wagner in
positions of power and he is not alone
in North Carolina they're considering a
bill that would freeze progress that
that state has made towards renewable
energy and one of the people who would
have a vote on that is state Rep Larry
Pittman so what is Larry's nuance take
on climate our planet runs on a cycle it
goes up and it goes down and the Lord
designed it that way the main thing that
causes global warming is the Earth's
relationship to a big ball of gas that's
burning at there that we call the Sun
and it is the height of hubris for human
beings to think that we can have any
effect on them no Larry no the hunters
hubris is not opposing climate change
against God's will the height of hubris
is according to Wikipedia six-foot-two
and he just pulled us out of the Paris
agreement so colossal that resemble
those guys in anyway you are going you
can a need to work to get them out of
office as soon as you can and all of
this is going to take work attention and
energy and I know that's not easy but
Trump may have inadvertently done us a
tiny favor this week because the problem
with climate change is that it's always
felt so abstract impersonal and far off
into the future and the usual symbols
that we use don't don't do much to fix
or help that it's either a graph that's
difficult to understand or a sad polar
bear on a small piece of ice and it's
hard to get emotionally fired up over
that I don't leave
know that there he he could be a dick
but but finally finally this week the
climate change movement may have gotten
a symbol to rally around because
apparently it was never quite enough for
us to motivate ourselves out of love for
this large gassy orb but maybe just
maybe we can now motivate ourselves to
do something out of our loathing of this