Europe you know that thing Belgium is in
if if you've watched the news at all
lately you cannot have missed what has
been happening there Europe's migrant
crisis is getting worse by the day
migrant crisis spiraling out of control
hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers
are risking everything a human wave
washing over Europe southern shores
hundreds of thousands of migrants have
streamed into Europe the largest influx
there since the end of World War two Wow
the largest since the end of World War
two and remember millions of people back
then were searching both for a better
life and for the booth where it was
rumored you could slap dead Hitler and
look the scale of this story can be hard
to get your head around hundreds of
thousands of people are on the move just
within Europe and another four million
are being hosted in Turkey Lebanon and
Jordan and when numbers get that high
that can be hard to comprehend it's like
when someone tells you the size of the
audience of NCIS New Orleans 17 million
people how's that even possible
how many Navy based crimes could there
possibly be in New Orleans this doesn't
make any sense and when you are dealing
with a mass of people that large you
only want to be a little careful with
how you describe them unfortunately
David Cameron noted alleged swine
fellatio enthusiast recently referred to
a swarm of people coming across the
Mediterranean and that language matters
because a swarm of anything sounds
terrifying
no matter what it is if I hear there are
a lot of kittens coming my way I'm going
to be delighted but if I hear there is a
swarm of kittens approaching I'm
grabbing a shotgun and I'm getting to
high ground because I'm not going to let
those furry fuckers take me alive
and here in the US some in the media
have chosen to reduce the migrant
population to one simple stereotype a
new video surfaces online showing why
some are worried Europe is opening its
doors to potential terrorists those are
reportedly Muslim refugees on a train in
Europe chanting Allah Akbar or God is
great now to be clear we're not saying
that any of those people are terrorists
or in any way affiliated with a terror
group but it does highlight just how
many of these refugees who are fleeing
violence in Iraq and Syria are Muslim
okay okay first you don't get to claim
that you're not calling those people
terrorists when your lower third says
terrorists inbound question mark if you
are really not saying they're terrorists
maybe change that to something more
accurate like people take train or some
wear hats others less so
and second describing that as a new
video that sheds light on the migrant
crisis is a little misleading because in
researching this story we found a
version of that same video uploaded onto
YouTube
back in 2010 well before this migrant
crisis even began and if you are going
to use misleading old footage to try and
make people frightened of Muslims why
stop there just go the whole way and use
a clip from True Lies now to be clear
we're not saying that any of those
people are terrorists or in any way
affiliated with a terror group but it
does highlight just how many of these
refugees who are fleeing violence in
Iraq
that's something about 10% more racist
than what you did so let's just take a
step back because for the record these
people are coming from many different
countries and fleeing everything from
civil war to economic stagnation and
while each story is unique many of them
are heartbreaking
no Gina 16 and from kobani in Syria
disabled from birth she cannot walk and
made the dangerous crossing from Turkey
last week for the first time during this
journey like a train and then a ship so
you enjoyed it yeah you're the first
person I've met who said that but to
understand why you must know the world
she escaped from at any minute what is
your dream to go out and find an alien
yes so I wanna meet the Queen oh I think
that girl absolutely deserves to meet an
alien and the Queen and also if she has
time a real human with feelings
but unfortunately for Najib and so many
like her Europe has yet to create an
effective system to process this influx
of people every country has a different
application process and some are totally
overwhelmed and underfunded we actually
got our hands on a couple of
registration forms that were given to
refugees upon arrival this one was
handed to a Syrian asylum seeker
arriving in Greece on September the 5th
it tells him to return for registration
on December the 21st and that could be a
tricky three-month wait because he's not
allowed to work in that time and yet
that is nothing compared to this form
given to an Iraqi refugee in Turkey
telling him to come back on June 15th of
2017 which sounds bad before you notice
the pink sticky notes added at the
bottom clarifying that his actual date
will be February 19th 2020 and that is
ridiculous these people can't go 5 years
without working there refugees
Renee Zellweger I'm facing that kind of
limbo
it's no wonder refugees want to try to
push deeper into Europe and many of them
are heading for one surprising country
in particular that seems to actually
want them they keep coming thousands
every day at the main train station in
Munich often greeted by applauding
locals or welcoming volunteers it's no
wonder that Germany is the preferred
destination for so many refugees that's
right amazingly one of the warmest
welcomes on offer to immigrants comes
from Germany a country whose idea of a
bedtime story is two children being left
to die in the forest before being nearly
cooked and eaten and then murdering an
old woman sleep well unfortunately many
politicians in other countries in
Germany have been actively hostile to
anyone even considering settling within
their borders no way you will not make
the Netherlands how please don't come
it's risky to come we can't guarantee
that you will be accepted here the
Danish government has published these
ads in a number of Lebanese newspapers
the text is obviously written in Arabic
and it's telling migrants don't come to
Denmark highlighting the tough
regulations and constraints that await
them there that's right
Denmark is so averse to taking people in
it's basically placing intentionally
missed connections ads in other
countries me Danish government official
you person in a Lebanese refugee camp
from the moment I saw you I knew there
was nothing between us and it could
never work perfect send but even
Denmark's approach seems friendly next
to the video apparently produced by the
mayor of a sheet aalam in Hungary
showing exactly how he and his police
forces would prevent migrants from
coming to his town model or sag Rose
Savalas - a shuttle embedding a Lego sub
[Music]
[Music]
okay okay a few things there first you
can add as much scary music as you want
there is nothing imposing about one van
drive to get load on a country road the
only message that that is sending to
migrants is make sure you wait for that
one van to pass by and second of all mr.
mayor you do realize that border police
and nightclub bouncers are not the same
thing right you look like you're about
to throw someone out of Hungary because
they didn't bring enough hot girls with
them and that mayor is no outlier
hungary has been responsible for some of
the ugliest mistreatment of refugees in
europe disturbing cell phone video
appears to show migrants at the main
refugee camp here being fed like a herd
of caged animals in a holding pen it's a
shocking video that has garnered
attention from around the world as waves
of desperate migrants sprint from a
holding camp in Hungary a camera woman
appears to trip a man running with his
child in his arms the woman also kicks
other migrants as they run including a
young girl now the camera woman is out
of a job oh I'm sorry she lost her job
that's absolutely terrible don't worry
I'm sure she can find a new one on
actual monster.com
to be fair she later apologized saying
I'm not a heartless racist children
kicking camerawoman
which I can only presume means she's a
loving accepting children kicking
camerawoman
because the children kicking part is not
really up for debate anymore and even
those countries who are offering to take
refugees are sometimes making those
offers in the most insulting Lea
selectively like Devaki ins saying that
they're only going to give asylum to two
Christians they don't want Muslims
migrants coming into the country Muslim
asylum seekers not least because they
haven't got any mosques I'm sorry
Slovakia
you can't take Muslims in because you
don't have any mosques you do know you
can build those right mosques don't
naturally occur in the wild due to
erosion or particularly devout beavers
[Applause]
dolphins trying to resettle in
Scottsdale Arizona and when refugees are
not being excluded on the basis of
religion they're being accused of being
lazy freeloaders just listen to one
polish mep address the european
parliament if we abolished all benefits
then people who don't want to work and
want to live from benefits wouldn't come
to poland and the rest of europe people
who want to work our precious however
they are sent back and we accept only
those who don't want to work it's
ridiculous policy leading to invasion of
human trash let us be clear the human
trash human garbage that doesn't want to
work human garbage those are some pretty
strong words coming from the Polish Six
Flags guy and what what he said is not
just offensive it's also wrong research
has shown that while there is some small
cost in the short term eventually an
influx of lower-wage immigrants into a
community tends to raise wages for
everyone else and a working paper
published last year by four economists
found that immigration benefited local
populations in 19 of the 20
industrialized countries they study and
think about that
adding immigrants makes things better 19
times out of
that's a success rate matched only by
bacon and paul rudd and incidentally
it's it's just a little hard to hear
these migrants and refugees being called
lazy considering how hard many of them
have worked to reach Europe in the first
place you really want to talk about lazy
migrants I'm a lazy migrant I left a
country by airplane and the only things
I was escaping were fog public a
difference and an almost certain future
as the turtle of Prince Harry's
entourage is Europe doesn't even need to
do this for good reasons it can do it
for selfish ones because as a continent
it is in dire need of new citizens
according to the UN the average woman
needs to have 2.1 children to maintain
the population of a developed country
but in the European Union every single
country is below that 2.1 level by 2050
some countries like Greece Portugal and
Germany will see their populations drop
by double-digit percentages according to
Pew that's true if Europe doesn't open
its doors to more migrants this is not
the changing face of Europe they should
be frightened of this is this one right
here and look not every single asylum
seeker is going to be the perfect
economic wellspring but instead of
worrying about the hypothetical downside
of letting these migrants in country
should be more worried about the actual
downside of turning them away if for no
other reason that you might miss out on
someone like Najim who seems like she
would improve any country that would
have her just listen to how she taught
herself English
at home with my favorite TV show
days of our lives whether you just
struggle love them both how could you
not want this girl in your country she
like came to our lives and specifically
she loves EJ and Sami in fact even after
weeks of total hell mortal danger and
inhumane treatment the jeans biggest
complaint is that the show actually
killed off EJ who was her favorite
character and frankly she's right to be
upset
EJ and Sami were magic together I mean
yes you could argue that EJ basically
blackmailed Sammy into marriage and then
impregnated her and then worked for
Sammy's arch-nemesis Nicole Walker who
he then also impregnated and then he
kidnapped Sammy's baby and made her
think it was dead so Sammy shot him in
their head but you know what that's the
kind of thing couples do and besides
they got through all that and yes yes
sure EJ did then cheat on Sammy before
their wedding with that trollop at
abigaile Deveraux but but he still
didn't deserve to die from yet another
gunshot wound even though yes it was a
best reckless for him to have a secret
meeting with hillbilly drug lord close
Western in the middle of the fucking
woods EJ how could you go you and Sammy
were so close to eternal happiness why
AJ why why EJ my point is my point is
my point is magine has been through
enough and any country would be lucky to
have her and I know lots of people still
have fears fears that migrants will
bankrupt social systems which many
studies show does not happen fears that
migrants might have an Isis member
lurking among them which there has been
no credible example of and no one is
saying this is easy but the fact is so
hard is not a reason to do less it's a
reason to do more from countries
expediting their application process to
properly funding the UN High Commission
for Refugees whose fund for responding
to Syrian refugees in neighboring
countries is less than half of where it
needs to be to simply and I know this
sounds crazy just not kicking them when
they're moving around and that's a crazy
idea
just raelia lagging and then there is
actually one final thing that we thought
we could do and it is admittedly very
small and it is just for one refugee but
for Najim who was so justifiably
saddened by the death of ej from days of
our lives
we made some calls and we have a
surprise that is literally just for you
[Music]
no way no it's a it's me
it can't be nobody than my father could
have done about done my sister made sure
that I survived the morgue and then she
flew to Germany while my father's witch
doctors did their work physically you
know for lunch but it took a long time
to be able to get away from him and his
people after my resurrection
[Music]
I just can't imagine how horrible this
was for you who's nothing
coming back from the dead that's not
hard you know what's hard getting from
Syria to Germany have you seen what
those migrants are going through it's
the same $1,000 to bribe your way onto
rubber dinghy and that's how you get
across the Mediterranean and if you make
it to the border of Turkey they'll hand
you a form offering you an appointment
five years from now then if you're lucky
you get to navigate a barrage of bigotry
and hatred from some asshole mayor's in
Hungary someone tripping a child if
someone did that to my child he's added
twice you know there are some amazing
people coming through that border I read
about this incredible 16 year old girl
from kobani called Najim Mustafa regime
Stafford yes the gene Mustafa meter one
day