mental illness the thing actors pretend
to have in order to win Oscars now in
real life mental health can be something
of a touchy topic we don't like to talk
about it much and as one psychiatrist
explains when we do we don't talk about
it well stigma still is a very big issue
it manifests itself in the ways that we
think and talk about the the mentally
ill and in the the terms the words that
we use to describe them for instance
wacko psycho cray-cray hearing a bearded
middle-aged man use the term cray-cray
may have already killed that word
forever it's like when your mom says
something is on fleek it's done it's
just over at that point but second he is
right
cray-cray is a terrible name to call
someone with mental illness although it
is an excellent name for a cartoon
crayfish who just won a scuttling
contest
you did it cray-cray you won the race
the point is we don't we don't talk
about mental illness well sometimes even
TV personalities with doctor in their
names can get it disastrously wrong on
the next doctor eyes everybody wants to
know am i normal or nuts should you be
worried this behavior is
it's not normal have you gone completely
insane I mean have you done completely
insane completely insane people go
outside suck on a rock and bark at the
moon he's wrong with you sucking on a
rock and barking at the moon it's not a
sign that someone's mentally ill it's a
sign that they are a wolf with an iron
deficiency you're thinking of anemic
wolves dr. Phil you're getting confused
but perhaps the clearest sign of just
how little we want to talk about mental
health is that one of the only times
it's actively brought up is as we've
seen yet again this week in the
aftermath of a mass shooting as a means
of steering the conversation away from
gun control this is in guns this is
about really mental illness in many of
these shootings we have people who have
mental disturbances do we need to do a
better job in mental health you bet we
do it seems there is nothing like a mass
shooting to suddenly spark political
interest in mental health although it's
worth noting that Governor Huckabee
states got a grade of d-minus on mental
health care while he was in office and
you can't lecture people on something
you've got a d-minus in it's like
passionately delivering a speech on
proper English grammar by saying we need
to thunk better about how we does word
stuff we need to get it did and the
aftermath of a mass shooting might
actually be the worst time to talk about
mental health because for the record the
vast majority of mentally ill people are
nonviolent and the vast majority of gun
violence is committed by non mentally
ill people in fact mentally ill people
are far likely to be the victims of
violence rather than the perpetrators so
the fact we tend to only discuss mental
health in a mass shooting context he's
deeply misleading it would be like if
the only time we talked about coca-cola
it were in the context of this more than
ever cool it sure sure that happened and
Coke was undeniably involved in it but
most cans of coke are not that one and
it would be unfair if every time you
thought of coke you thought of that but
if now is
only opportunity to have a public
discussion about mental health and
perhaps we should do it because in 2013
an estimated forty three point eight
million American adults dealt with a
mental illness and an estimated ten
million of us suffer from a serious
mental illness each year ten million
that's almost as many people as live in
Greece and most of us know a lot more
about Greece than we know about our
mental health system think about it you
know at least three things about Greece
its economy is collapsing Yanni's from
there and Greek yogurt tastes like the
ice cream they make in a town where
dancing is illegal and when you look at
how our current system deals with severe
mental illness you'll quickly realize
it's a mess and it always has been we
used to lock people up in asylums which
were often so bad they were known as
snake pits and that doesn't sound like
an attractive place to live even if
you're a snake you'd want some kind of
snake loft or snake bungalow I don't
know I'm no real estate agent and then
in the 1960s President Kennedy signed a
bill to try and close as many of those
asylums as possible under this
legislation custodial mental
institutions will be replaced by
therapeutic centers it should be
possible within a decade or two to
reduce the number of patients in mental
institutions by 50% or more and that was
a really good idea because when you see
horrible places doing unspeakable things
to people you are supposed to try and
shut them down that's why there are so
few Quiznos left but before you get too
proud of the fact that we shut those
snake pits down it turns out we never
followed through and properly funded the
community mental health centers JFK had
wanted to replace them all of those
patients had to go somewhere and some of
the places they wound up are shocking
for instance a few years ago the AAP
found that nearly 125,000 young and
middle-aged mental health patients were
being placed in nursing homes and it's
not a great idea to just stick a young
person in with some old people and then
hope for the best
it's like casting Taylor Lautner in the
new Best Exotic Marigold Hotel movie
it's unsuitable for everybody involved
in it
and some states have been involved in
something called Greyhound therapy and
unfortunately that does not mean getting
to hug her trembling dog who's 98
percent bone and gristle it's an even
worse kind of Greyhound the kind with
four wheels and a broken toilet this is
Ross and Neil the only state-run
psychiatric hospital in Southern Nevada
Ross and Neil has been accused of
Greyhound therapy a practice critics
call unthinkable discharging seriously
ill patients too soon then supplying
them with a one-way bus ticket out of
town I'm sorry but you cannot just put
people you'd rather not see on a bus to
another city if you could that's how
every breakup would end
look look Greta it's not you it's maybe
but on the other hand I think you gonna
really enjoy your new life in Syracuse
and we have not even got into the most
depressingly common place that people
with mental illnesses can end up two
million people with mental illness go to
state and local jails every year that's
meant there's now 10 times more people
behind bars than in state-funded
psychiatric treatment that is terrible
finding out jails are our largest
provider of mental health treatment is
like finding out Lil Wayne lyrics are
our greatest source of sexual education
no Darren you can't smack it up flip it
like a spatula where did you even learn
that what does it mean flip it like a
spatula would you like it if I did that
to your mother
no you wouldn't you wouldn't out so
don't say it look look using the
criminal justice system to treat the
mentally ill isn't just ineffective it's
expensive and it's dangerous because
often when someone is having a mental
health emergency the police will be
called and that can end tragically by
some estimates an incredible half of all
incidents involving the police use of
deadly force involve a mentally ill
person and to their credit some Police
Department's are changing the way they
do things even creating special units
like this one these officers are experts
in what's called crisis intervention
training would you say that you really
don't want to
but you want the pain to stop would that
be okay are you willing to get some help
today
this woman agrees to get help we'll go
in there together you'll ride with us
run an unmarked car it's all part of a
pioneering program where the mentally
ill are diverted out of jams and into
treatment
okay well that seems really good but
calling it a pioneering program is a
little heartbreaking pioneering ideas
should not be completely obvious things
we should have been doing all along they
should be outlandish things that push
the limits of the possible like a fitted
sheet that's easy to fold or marshmallow
airbags or a sex doll without such judgy
eyes don't look at me like that Linda
I'm lonely and we both know it
unfortunately only 15% of law
enforcement agencies even have crisis
intervention training programs let alone
special units and taking that training
is typically voluntary and how can
something so essential to your job be
voluntary take the mascot for the Tampa
Bay Rays we don't let him decide whether
or not to wear that costume because
without it things can get ugly fast
it's important for doing his job right
and look that's just a tiny fix our
whole system needs a massive overhaul
which won't be easy the public safety
net for the mentally ill spans Medicaid
which is different across the country
eight federal agencies who administer a
hundred and twelve different programs
that in some way touch on mental health
and the social service agencies in each
of the 50 states it is a clusterfuck
except that's an insult to cluster fox
because at least in them there's the
potential of a satisfying ending this is
more of a frustrating cluster dry hump
of sometimes
and that's not to say there aren't
programs that work let's look at just
one assertive community treatment it's
designed to let those with serious
mental illnesses live in the community
by providing regular in-home visits and
help coordinate the coordinating
assistance in things like housing and
employment listen to just one social
worker explain how it can work
what makes mental health might not just
be a visit to your psychiatrist it might
also mean having your entitlements in
place or it might mean having your rent
paid on time so instead of meeting with
a person and talking about how they're
doing how they feel on once a month or
twice a month what we do is everything
that it takes to keep people in the
community living independently that's
fantastic everything it takes sounds
like a much better option than what
we've apparently been trying which is
nothing not anything very few things not
much and prison and yet in many states
assertive community treatment programs
are in jeopardy thanks to everything
from budget cuts to Medicaid
reimbursement problems despite the fact
a study found that these programs pretty
much pay for themselves which is
fantastic government programs are like
graduate students on a first date if
they are able to pay for themselves it's
a king miracle and that's just one
program there are many more designed for
many different levels of need and we as
a society we have to figure out how to
fund them not just because it makes
fiscal sense but because it would save
lives and if I remember rightly there
are some politicians who claim to be
pretty motivated to address this problem
this is in guns this is about really
mental illness and many of these
shootings we have people who have mental
disturbances do we need to do a better
job in mental health you bet we do okay
fine do it then because if we're going
to constantly use mentally ill people to
dodge conversations about gun control
then the very least we owe them is a
king plan