once the envy of all employees who work
in open-plan offices I would take a king
beaded curtain just so I don't have to
directly observe Carol clipper nails do
it at home Carol what this year one
particular wall has gotten a lot of our
attention I will build a great great
wall on our southern border at the Trump
walk beautiful walk I will build the
greatest wall that you've ever seen they
ever put my name on I want a gorgeous
wall the Trump wall will that be a
beautiful one yes Donald Trump wants to
build a wall on the US Mexican border
and based on his tone he also wants to
fuck that wall the was such excited
fixture of his speeches of so popular
among his supporters one man even wore a
spandex war costume one of his rallies
and I mean that's kind of incredible the
only group of people more excited about
barriers are high school health teachers
oh that's right cool guys and cool girls
when you're horny there is nothing
better than a good dental dam it feels
exactly the same it doesn't it really
doesn't
the border wall is one of the few policy
proposals Trump has talked about in
detail so instead of mocking or
dismissing it out of hand tonight let's
take a series proposal by a serious
presidential candidate seriously and
first let's put aside the potential
racism and xenophobia involved here we
can come back to that later and instead
let's focus on the practicality of
whether and how it can actually be done
and let's start with the cost when Trump
first started talking about this he said
it would cost a lot but not a lot a lot
let's say the world costs 4 billion you
know they say 10 billion that means 4
billion if you know what you're doing ok
so so so he's saying he could build a
wall at 40% of what it would cost others
which I would say is an insane magic
trick if I thought his tiny fingers
could wrap all the way around a magic
wand but since then his estimate has
grown the wall is going to call six or
seven billion walls probably eight
billion dollars a wall gets built it's
gonna cost ten billion dollars to build
a wall okay it's a lot of money to wall
the walls gonna cost ten billion dollars
maybe twelve depending okay so we've
gone from four to twelve billion dollars
Donald Trump's margin of error is the
entire GDP of Moldova but still fair
enough we're now at 12 billion dollars
but but to truly know the real cost
we're gonna need to know what the wall
is going to be made from now if only
Donald Trump could explain that to me
like I'm a child you're going to build
the wall what's it going to be made out
of
hey that's a good question lift him up
here bring him up here gonna be made of
hardened concrete and it's gonna be made
out of rebar and steel okay first first
Trump is holding that child less like a
human being and more like a cat's he
just gave a bath to but but second
second to be fair rebar and steel okay
that is a clear answer I appreciate that
now now the amount we would need would
depend on the height of the wall
unfortunately Trump has been unclear on
that suggesting numbers ranging from 35
to 90 feet so let's work with his lowest
estimate at a 35 foot tall wall which
Trump has said we would need around a
thousand miles off now according to one
estimator and construction economists
that would cost 10 billion dollars for
the concrete panels and 5 to 6 billion
for steel columns including labor plus
another billion for concrete footing for
the columns and a concrete foundation so
that's at least 16 billion dollars
we're already four billion over his
largest budget and we've only just
gotten started here because those
materials are heavy and you're gonna
have to transport them into many areas
that are currently inaccessible to
construction vehicles so that same
expert estimates another two billion
dollars to build roads so that 20-ton
trucks can deliver those materials and
that's not even getting into another 30%
or so for engineering design and
management so now we're up to around
twenty five billion dollars anywhere
from two to six times Trump's estimates
but wait because we're still not done
all of that is just building a wall the
Congressional Budget Office estimated
for a similar project that wall
maintenance costs would exceed the
initial construction costs within seven
years so it's a big dumb thing that only
gets more expensive over time it's like
getting a pet walrus you think it's
stupid now what until you learn what a
bucket of sea cucumbers costs
you've not prepared for that but but
whatever the cost is Trump claims he has
got a way to pay for it Mexico is going
to pay for the war
going to pay for the war Mexico is going
to pay for the war Mexico is gonna pay
for the wall and they're gonna be happy
about it of course they are of course
that people love it when you make them
pay for shit they don't want that's why
everyone is so happy when their cable
company bundles together cable internet
and landline that will come in handy
when I need to call my cell phone
because I can't find it and that's about
it but is Mexico going to pay for the
wall because the current Mexican
Treasury Secretary has said Mexico under
no circumstance is going to pay for the
wall that mr. Trump is proposing and two
former Mexican presidents were even
clearer Mexican people we are not going
to pay any single cent for a such a
stupid wall as you care I'm not gonna
fail you for that I think the best part
of that clip is the fact that he even
took the extra effort to swear in
English hey this may be my second
language but I want to make absolutely
sure youth understand it but when Trump
was asked about these comments he
responded with characteristic diplomacy
the wall just got 10 feet taller believe
me ten feet tall come on things don't
get bigger just because you're angry if
that were true Alec Baldwin would be a
hundred feet tall by now now to be fair
to be fair here Trump has thought
through how he will get Mexico to foot
the bill we have right now a fifty eight
billion dollar trade deficit with Mexico
that's why the wall gets built by the
way that's why they're gonna pay for it
okay I see I think Mexico will pay
because we have a trade deficit I
understand unfortunately that's
literally not how anything works because
well yes we did buy fifty eight billion
dollars more in goods and services from
Mexico than they did from us last year
that money doesn't belong to the Mexican
government it's earned by Mexican
businesses it's not lying around in some
centralized scrooge mcduck
been labeled dumb Americans money do not
spend on border fence let's put all this
aside and let's say we did find the
money where would we put a border wall
now your instinct says on the border but
even that is actually more difficult
than it sounds and we know this because
in 2006 George W Bush scientist secure
Fence Act which called for the
construction of 700 miles of fencing
along the border a project which
incidentally then senators Barack Obama
and Hillary Clinton voted for which is
terrible although keep in mind that
millions of you voted for Taylor Hicks
in 2006 so we don't be quite so quick to
judge
so patrol that fence that vets ran into
a lot of problems though for instance in
large stretches of Texas the border
consists of the Rio Grande and typically
you can't build a wall along the river
as a 1970 treaty prohibits building
anything that may cause obstruction of
normal flow of the river and for that
and other reasons some stretches of the
border fence were built considerably
inland and as towns like Brownsville
Texas have learned that can be a problem
this here is the Rio Grande River as
cuts all the way you can see it makes a
natural Crescent there this is Mexico
all back here here's where the walls
built so all of this golf course is now
stuck in between Mexico and this border
fence it's true that golf course was
stuck between the u.s. border fence and
Mexico in a space that like the case of
Diablo Pajarito occurred over isn't
really American but sure as shit isn't
Mexican
as the ridiculousness of this situation
was not lost on the people who played
there you realize when you're golfing
here that you're in them you're not
really in the United States or Mexico
here
I don't care where I am as long as I'm
off course you think it's helping with
security no I think I think that woman
just said in two words what I'm taking
20 minutes to say in this piece does the
fence help no stupid I look Texas became
a real problem for constructing that
fence because in Texas unlike in other
states there is no federally owned
buffer along the Mexican border meaning
the land is mostly owned by private
citizens like the loop family who owned
a ranch in Texas and discovered that
three-quarters of their land would
suddenly be on the other side of the
fence
when Homeland Security asked the loops
to sign away rights to their land for
the fence they said no way I'm not
finding anything at this point
nothing this is not possible so the
government used the power of eminent
domain and condemned their property Wow
and the loops were not alone hundreds of
property owners were sued by the federal
government so the fence could be built
perhaps the only silver lining here
might be that historically in America
when the federal government takes your
land and treats you terribly
you at least get an offensive football
team named after you so I guess one day
we can all look forward to the
Washington loops hey it's a sign of
respect that respecting their heritage
why can't you understand that and the
fences damage didn't stop there because
Michael Chertoff then Secretary of
Homeland Security signed a document
giving his department the authority to
waive 36 laws to build the fence
including the Endangered Species Act the
Safe Drinking Water Act and the Native
American graves protection and
repatriation Act he even welded parts of
the fence himself wearing an American
Eagle facemask and he looks like a
member of Daft Punk
if Daft Punk played nothing but Lee
Greenwood covers
and that Native American grave laws came
in horrifyingly handy as this Native
American leader explains fragments of
human remains were found in heavy
equipment tracks on the Christian ranch
archaeological site a site now crossed
by barrier barriers and the border road
imagine a bulldozer in your family
graveyard I mean say what you will but I
think imagine a bulldozer in your family
graveyard is definitely the worst verse
of John Lennon's Imagine it's not my
favorite it is not my favorite and by
waiving the protections for wildlife the
fence has posed dangers to the survival
in the u.s. of everything from Jaguars
to pronghorns to pygmy owls and look how
shocked they look by that fact although
although I will admit they do
permanently look like you've just
murdered their entire families Trump
might well argue having a wall is worth
all of this because it will act as a
fortress to stop people and drugs
flowing across the border but let's look
at that because the most recent
authoritative estimate suggests nearly
half of the unauthorized migrants in the
u.s. entered legally through a port
eventually like an airport or a border
crossing usually with visas that they
then overstayed a wall can't stop that
it's like wearing a condom to protect
against head lice you could do that but
that's not really how you keep the thing
you're worried about from happening
which is not to say that there are not
some people crossing the border where a
wall would be but what a wall really
stopped them what the Border Patrol says
and I've spoken to a lot of their people
is look first of all if you build a
30-foot wall all its gonna do is create
a market for 31-foot ladders of course
of course that's right and I by the way
remember when you're looking for a
31-foot ladder avoid Werner climbing a
werner ladder is like dousing yourself
in cooking grease and climbing a pile of
tetanus do yourself a favor and get into
walt ladder and i'm not being paid to
say that i'm just a fan
a very happy customer and ladders are
not the walls only weakness watch as
Donald Trump inadvertently stumbles his
way into a key realization so you take
precast plank it comes 30 feet along 40
feet along 50 feet long there's no
ladder going over that if they ever get
up there they're in trouble cuz there's
no way to get down maybe you're up yeah
this may be a rope yes yes your
brilliant plan has been undone by
mankind's third invention and as for
stopping drugs walls and fences have not
posed much of a challenge to cartels in
Mexico police have discovered a tunnel
believed to have been used to smuggle
drugs into the u.s. using this makeshift
cannon they were shooting packages small
packages of marijuana across the border
these men were actually using a catapult
to launch drugs across the border other
smugglers have kept it a bit simpler
than that they just get somebody with a
really good arm who throws it over the
fence like a football okay okay well
we'll say if they're looking for a new
recruit
I know Peyton Manning is currently
between jobs but let's face it for many
people efficacy is beside the point
this wall is about making us feel safer
and here is where the racism and
xenophobia that we put aside at the top
of this piece really needs to be brought
back because while other politicians
have supportive barriers at the border
Donald Trump has been uncommonly clear
about who we need to be protected from
when Mexico sends its people they're not
sending their best they're bringing
drugs they're bringing crime they're
rapists and some I assume are good
people
Trump Trump sounds like an angry
villager running through the town square
yelling werewolves Run For Your Lives
though some I assume are good werewolves
but they're here to kill you with maybe
a few exceptions but mostly werewolves
run run
we're werewolves love me and I love
werewolves but they're here to kill all
of us but but about that because while
yes individual undocumented immigrants
have committed horrible crimes so
obviously have American citizens and in
fact researchers consistently find that
immigrants are less not more crime prone
than their native-born counterparts the
crime rates among immigrants once here
are relatively tiny digits which is
something Donald Trump should frankly
understand given that he has ten of them
attached take these minuscule you wish
to say that the idea of the war is not
still comforting for some people or as
one man who actually lives near the
border puts it this was put out to
illustrate to Joe whoever up in Dubuque
or someplace they see a picture of this
and they're overstuffed butts and an
overstuffed chair looking at a to big TV
think oh yeah that'll stop them well of
course it doesn't this guy is amazing
shitting on the fat cat out of touch
metropolis that is Dubuque Iowa but even
if it does make the people of Dubuque
feel safer given everything we've seen
is it worth it because remember we
calculated earlier that this could
conservatively cost twenty five billion
dollars excluding the cost of both
maintenance and the land under it that
works out to around seventy seven
dollars per person and here is where I
would like to make a counterproposal to
Donald Trump's wall plan if the main
thing is going to get us is a warm sense
of satisfaction inside I suggest instead
of building that wall we use the money
to buy every man woman and child in
America a parmer waffle iron these
beauties retail at $75 apiece so we'd
still have nearly a billion dollars left
over and just to be clear this isn't one
per household this is one per person you
have five people in your family you got
five waffle irons coming your way
not only is this cost-effective unless
you are a really sick fuck this waffle
iron plan would not kill a single pygmy
owl I know what you're thinking John
this is a stupid idea but is it is it
really yes
obviously it is but is it significantly
stupider than Donald Trump's wall
because this waffle iron plan will cost
less it'll do nearly as much to keep out
immigrants and drugs it won't harm our
relationship with our third largest
trading partner if it is racist it's
only toward Belgians and and unlike
Donald Trump's wall
this makes fucking waffles what kind of
country do we want to wake up to one
that spends billions on an impossible
impractical symbol of fear or one that
smells like breakfast
exactly