the united kingdom birthplace of the
beatles and yet very much the world's
ringo now on thursday the UK faces and
in-out referendum on whether to leave
the European Union and incidentally and
in/out referendum is also what most
English people call sex I say that was a
jolly good in-out referendum priscilla
capital star fell girl simply capital
yeah you may not have heard about this
referendum unless you watch financial
networks where it's usually referred to
by a catchy name there's a lot of fear
out there in the marketplace about the
brexit vote that's coming up rigs it
fears gaining traction
a new survey this morning focuses on
brexit fears
Rickson is one of the major concerns in
the market at the moment I think that's
the scariest thing about brexit is the
name Ramsey because it's unknown I mean
it's like wow brexit whoa be afraid
conjuring brexit okay calm down
grexit doesn't sound scary it just
sounds like a shitty granola bar you buy
at the airport hey this tastes like a
preserved owl pellet kit I'm going to
Cinnabon you push me into it and I know
I know if you're watching this outside
the UK you're probably thinking why
should I care about what Britain does
with the EU honestly as long as those
crooked tooth scone goblins keeps
shooting out royal babies in episodes of
Doctor Who
I don't give a Tallyho what happens
there and fair enough fair enough but a
brexit or british exit could have
wide-ranging implications both for the
UK and the world's economy and first it
might help to understand what the
European Union actually is the idea for
it came after the Second World War when
there was understandably a desire to
keep the continent from tearing itself
apart yet again and it has since evolved
into an economic union of 28 countries
whose citizens can trade and move freely
across borders and who negotiate
international agreements as a bloc but
despite being a member
Britain has always had an arm's length
relationship with the EU for instance it
doesn't use the euro and some British
politicians have been openly hostile
right to the face of EU officials I
don't want to be rude
but you have the charisma of a damp rag
and the appearance of a low-grade bank
clerk and the question that I want to
ask that we're all gonna ask is who are
you I'd never heard of you nobody in
Europe had ever heard of you that is
painful to watch and not just because
all of those insults are things people
in the UK have said about me and I look
look the EU is not perfect it's large
confounding and relentlessly
bureaucratic think of it like Gerard
Depardieu
it's an unwieldy European body that's a
source of great bewilderment but Britain
leaving it would be a huge destabilizing
decision so you would expect the brexit
camp to have some pretty solid arguments
unfortunately many of them are
one of the most popular involves the
financial contributions that Britain
makes to the EU we've got a
once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to take
back control in this country of huge
sums of money that we send every year to
Brussels about 350 million pounds a week
we do not control that is former London
Mayor Boris Johnson a man with both the
look and the economic insight of bam-bam
from the Flintstones he hears even being
driven around in a giant red bus for the
last month with the words we sent the EU
350 million pounds a week written on the
side but that number has been thoroughly
debunked it's actually about 190 million
pounds a week when you can say that a
rebate the UK receives and other money
that the EU sends back on top of which
if Britain does leave the EU it may have
to spend close to that amount just to
access the common market so what the bus
should really say is we actually send
the EU 190 million pounds a week which
is a proportion of our GDP makes sound
fiscal sense in fact considering the
benefits we were even returned oh
we're running out of bus okay bye-bye
now what one of the other main talking
points from pro brexit campaigners has
been the e use onerous regulations it's
even a centerpiece of the feature-length
Pro brexit movie brexit the movie here
is regulated a you man
waking from his regulated slumbers to
started regulated day you wouldn't think
you'd need a law for pillowcases but the
EU has five but that's nothing the
pillow inside is subject to 109
different EU laws but is it though
because we blew up that frame and then
went looking through each of the pillow
regulations they feature and the problem
is most have nothing to do with actual
pillows for instance this one is a
classification of a type of breakfast
cereal that comes in pillow shapes this
one is related to a merger between two
auto part companies that included the
phrase pillow ball joints and finally
this one uses the word pillow in
reference to this weird foot pump thing
which is supposedly for inflating air
mattresses but is clearly a sex doll for
a platypus it's so obvious what that
actually is
so it seems the benefits of leaving may
be overstated and there is many there's
a great many people warning about a real
downside President Obama is against
Britain leaving so is China
so is Japan so is India and the EU
itself in fact one Austrian politician
try to convince Britain not to leave
with a poem the brexit is to put it
simple not like an ordinary pimple you
take some cream you put it on a few days
later it is gone it is a complicated
matter more like a novel not a letter to
understand the story well you've got to
listen I will tell you what may happen
so sit back and let me wrap it
cool I mean come on Britton if a
middle-aged Austrian bureaucrats
spitting dope half rhymes in a busy
hallway if he does not win you over
nobody will you know what there's also
overwhelming consensus about the damage
Britain could do to its economy by
leaving reports by groups like the
British Treasury the Bank of England the
IMF the OECD the National Institute of
Economic and Social Research
PricewaterhouseCoopers Oxford Economics
and the center for economic performance
have all predicted that leaving would
have a negative effect on the British
GDP and the probe brexit Cam's response
to that has not been great I think the
people in this country have had enough
of experts with organizations on acronym
easily to see we're passing off of
expert with with local organisations
with acronyms saying that they know what
is best in getting the insistently wrong
yes these eggheads with their studies
and degrees I get my economic forecast
from clever otice the GDP predicting
hoarse and at this point you may be
wondering if leaving is so universally
seen as a bad idea then who the is
in favor of it well let me introduce you
to one of the leading groups backing a
brexit the UK Independence Party also
called you Kip their leader is Nigel
Faraj that man you saw earlier at the
Comedy Central Roast of European Council
President Herman Van Rompuy you Kip is
known for its hardline anti-immigration
views and some of its members have
engaged in outright racism just look at
Robert bleh hey you keep candidate for
Parliament who was suspended after a
tabloid paper caught him saying this
about a rival of Sri Lankan descent
family's only been here since the 70s
whoa there just hold not British enough
to be in our Parliament he's talking
about a British citizen who was born in
London and raised in Hampshire how is
that not British enough must he
literally be a monocled badger named
Reginald who lives in a shepherd's pie
is that the bar of entry to him and at
the local level you keep us had
councilors like this woman who served on
a district council in Kent I have to
watch my tongue because I can be very
outspoken and and it goes against the
grain the only people I do have problems
with on Negroes and I don't know why
okay okay let's agree it is now official
not everything sounds smarter in a
British accent it's official now it is
absolutely 100% official like I know I
know what you're heard is horrifying but
at least we can all rest easy knowing
that as she speaks that shelf full of
clowns is plotting to carry her away
into the night forever but even when you
keep candidates are caught making racist
comments Faraj has sometimes stood by
them look at Carrie Smith who used a
racial slur about Chinese people the
term that I'm not going to use because
I'm not a parliamentary candidate for
you Kip but Nigel Faraj did not exactly
condemn him if you and your mate
going out for Chinese what do you say
you're going for I honestly would not
use the word now you try you a lot of
people would well you know but a lot of
people would yeah yeah a lot of people
would racist for example are bigots
idiots the intolerant Who am I missing
here oh yeah you kick voters them as
well
a lot of people would you keep argued
that a brexit would enable the UK to
significantly reduce immigration
preventing both EU citizens from taking
British jobs and non-eu citizens from
sneaking in to commit terror attacks and
they have not been subtle in their
campaign with toxic posters like this
one showing lines of refugees and the
headline breaking point it is hard for
me to overstate to you how poisonous
things have become in England
this week MP Joe Cox was killed in the
street and the man chose for it gave his
name in court as death to traitors
freedom for Britain and in that caldron
people are being asked to make a major
political decision and incidentally
regarding immigration even if you
believe tightening borders is what
Britain needs to do you should know that
opting out of the EU will not
necessarily enable Britain to do that
leaving the EU does that mean the UK
gets control of its borders um it could
do if we were to completely cut
ourselves off from the rest of Europe we
could certainly choose to end migration
bu but if we want to remain part of the
single market that means accepting free
mobility of labour both into and out of
the UK of course because if Britain
wants a good trade deal with the EU it's
probably gonna have to abide by most of
its rules and the same goes by the way
for all those hypothetically cumbersome
non pillow related pillow regulations
because if British companies want to
trade with the EU they also are likely
to have to go to have to abide by those
rules anyway so it's not a brexit so
much as it's a brat as quo or Abe Romeo
stasis or a conscious uncoupling
so to recap immigration policy may not
change his Styria over-regulation is a
red herring the cost of membership are
reasonable and the economic benefits of
staying appear to outweigh the costs and
yet poll suggests my homeland is on the
edge of doing something absolutely
insane and on some level I actually kind
of understand because there isn't innate
British desire to tell Europe to go
itself I feel it too you know those
things I say when countries pop up over
my shoulder that's a reflex action I
don't even know I'm doing it I'll show
you
um Germany where the national motto is
let's stick to the present shall we okay
uh give me another one at Luxembourg
what happens when you leave
Liechtenstein out in the Sun too long
bow okay give me another one
Belgium the casual acquaintance France
crops out of its Instagram photos okay
okay one more I'm on a roll one more
Denmark
what would happen if a suicide note was
a country I don't even know
I'm doing these and I could do them all
day and to be honest the EU does not
make itself easy to love it's official
anthem is Beethoven's Ode to Joy and
they actually have a competition to do a
video set to that June and you really
have to see what one of Tulsa loozy
favorite fil English's Kylie's 3q - all
forever
yes you go like that you see it is
perfectly understandable to be annoyed
at Europe I'm barely containing my anger
right now but here is how I feel about
the EU it's a complicated bureaucratic
ambitious overbearing inspirational and
consistently irritating institution and
Britain would be absolutely crazy to
leave it especially because if it stays
it can reap all the benefits while still
being a total dick about everything and
that is the British Way so to the people
of the UK I say this if you need your
hatred of the EU itch scratched I
understand but please don't vote for a
brexit on Thursday I have a better
solution
I'd like to retro actively enter that EU
anthem contest with a song straight out
of every British heart that both relent
Lee relentlessly insults Europe and
quietly acknowledges how lost we'd be
without it
please enjoy
we're not going to leave you turns out
we need
yes
to hunt and we're done
it's true without these countries
we must admit we would all be batshit
crazy
we thought for me
we won't be that crazy if we
Oh