the Olympics otherwise known as your
biennial reminder that NBC exists the
real games are just around the corner so
get ready for plenty of sappy athlete
profiles like these Tory Bowie is a
sprinter climbing her way to the top her
success exceeds far beyond the unkempt
field she started on in high school at
his childhood pool there's still a bench
where he was forced to sit and take
timeouts but what others struggled to
contain in daily life Phelps put to full
purpose when there was something on the
line burrows is powered by the elemental
truth of the sport that fills his dreams
yes those videos aren't just uplifting
that's basically inspiration porn but
that's what a fireworks display watches
when it wants to jerk off but well the
Olympics feature thriller II thrilling
displays of athletic prowess they can
also take place beneath the dark shadow
cast by doping scandals and this
Olympics is no exception
according to a report that reads like a
Cold War spy thriller Russian secret
agents and a mysterious Moscow
laboratory we used for state sanctioned
doping a Russian athlete and trainer
secretly filmed drugs being handed out
like candy Russia accused staggeringly
of using its security services its new
KGB to tamper with supposedly tamper
proof bottles allegedly using this hole
in the laboratory wall to switch samples
it's true
a Russian lab used a secret hole in the
wall in an attempt to win Olympic medals
making this the first known example of a
literal glory hole and just listen just
listen to how the athletes ingested some
of the drugs in the first place run
chiang cops cocktails of three different
performance-enhancing drugs were on his
instructions washed down by athletes
with alcohol to shorten the detection
period chievous for male athletes
vermouth for the ladies wait what the
move for the ladies
look I get doping is still going on but
I'd hope that unnecessarily gendered
illegal products died it died out with
the Virginia Slims crack pipe
hashtag feminism hashtag crack pipes now
Russia's track and field team is
currently banned from competing at the
upcoming Olympics but there is nothing
new about this story for as long as
there's been science people have used it
to juice the human body in the 1920s a
Russian born French surgeon crafted thin
slices of chimp testicles into people
scrotums which was obviously ridiculous
these days we know you need a thick
slice of chimp testicles that's when it
starts to work and there's a long
history of athletes circumventing the
rules in the 1904 Olympics one of the
marathon runners wrote 11 miles in a car
a move that takes balls so big they must
have included a massive slice of chimp
nuts now as for the modern era while no
one knows exactly how many athletes dog
there are some shocking hints one leaked
survey found that an estimated 29
percent of track and field athletes at
the 2011 World Championships said that
they adopt in the past year and
presumably that doesn't even include
roided-out athletes who responded by
yelling survey make me angry crumpling
it up and throwing it to the moon but
the prevalence of doping is a little
surprising when you consider how
rigorous the testing regimes in top
sport can be what what happens to one
runner just seconds after she crosses
the finish line from now until she's
able to provide a sample two things will
be constant water and Flanagan's
anti-doping chaperone the chaperone
makes sure the athlete doesn't try to
cheat her drug test it's a big time buy
skill because you're really excited
and you want to enjoy the moment but
then at the same time yeah you got to
get focused and get ready in pain no but
that's got to be tough because you're
probably not ready to pee on command
just after finishing a race that's not
what your body is prepared to do at that
moment it's like asking someone to have
an orgasm in the middle of test driving
and this and cube it's it's not going to
be easy that could take a while
and if you think it's no fun for the
athletes it's not much fun for the
testers either real sports followed one
of them on a surprise out-of-competition
test his task this early Saturday
morning is to collect a sample from an
elite rower named Alex so CIL's Alex
agreed to let us film the moment of
truth Lowell is required to witness and
have an unobstructed view
that that is the face of a man
reconsidering every single decision he
has made in his life while also
desperately wishing that athlete had not
had asparagus for dinner
but despite rigorous testing athletes
are clearly slipping through the cracks
for a number of reasons for start there
are multiple tests and none of them can
detect the full range of drugs and
athletes might be on from anabolic
steroids to EPO to human growth hormone
to the most powerful drug of all love
and testing itself it's much less black
and white than you might assume there
are wide variations in human
biochemistry so to avoid false positives
testing thresholds are often
deliberately high and athletes can dope
and still come below those thresholds by
doing things like micro dosing or using
masking agents to hide banned substances
and those are just some ways that it's
possible for top athletes to cheat while
still being able to say things like this
people are smart do they say as Lance
Armstrong ever tested positive
no his Lance Armstrong been tested a lot
wow that is some confident lying which
isn't really surprising remember this is
the man who looked America dead in the
eyes and said bicycling is a very cool
sport and we've King believed him and
the techniques some athletes have used
to beat the system have been amazingly
imaginative take for instance the
European cyclists who would insert
condoms of clean urine into their anus
and then in order to conceal everything
would cover it with fake hair blending
into the real hair of the nether regions
and you have to imagine that to convince
the cyclist to do that a coach would
need to deliver the most inspirational
speech in the history of sports hey do
you want to be a champion do you then
you jam in that piss balloon cake
that hot glue gun slap on that aina
smirking and ride like a champion full
anus Curtis can't lose right when they
have tested positive the excuses have
been even more imaginative former
sprinter Dennis Mitchell insisted his
positive test for testosterone was the
result of having sex at least four times
the night before and drinking five
bottles of beer and if that is what your
life is like you don't really need the
Olympics now other other athletes have
blamed positive tests on eating a pie
made from doped up racing pigeons or
eating a skew of meat and organs from
uncashed rated Bors and I'll say this if
Wheaties is really the breakfast of
champions their ingredient list will now
include pigeon meat and Pig jizz or it's
over but but none of that beats my
favorite excuse of all time cyclist
Tyler Hamilton had to explain why
somebody else's blood was in his veins
he claimed a vanished twin absorbed by
his body in the womb the court didn't
buy it oh but that twin isn't vanished
it's me I'm your brother Tyler and my
name isn't John Oliver it's Skyler
Skyler Hamilton and together we are
Skyler and Tyler Hamilton a pair of on
vanished twins and we're both equally
good at biking
and in a way in a way you can see why a
fleets might want to dope a split second
advantage can make the difference
between winning and losing and there's a
lot of money on the line for everyone
there is a massive financial ecosystem
dependent on spectacular athletic
achievement in scandal-free games and
that includes the network's
who reap over a billion in ad sales the
IOC which wreaks billions in broadcast
rights and then there's the sponsors who
love using Olympic athletes for ads like
these to perform your best trainings
gotta be a lifelong passion fueled by a
foot long passion that's why Debbie
Phelps is always there for her son Mike
with his favorite flavor packed fully
jacked foot long subs stop because first
no professional swimmer wants a sandwich
in the pool and for the record there is
nothing more viscerally upsetting than a
woman feeding her soaking wet nearly
naked adults on something called a fully
jacked foot line and when you combine
the point is when you combine all the
money incentivizing athletes to get an
edge with all the imperfections of tests
you would hope there'd be a robust
independent monitoring system in place
unfortunately some countries lack the
resources for strong testing while
others seem to lack the desire and to
get a sense of just how compromised the
system can become let's go back to what
happened in Russia because here's how
things worked this is a Russian
track-and-field athletes he would
compete for his national sports
Federation in this case arif that
Federation would be under both the
international body governing track and
field's to the I double AF and the
Russian Ministry of sport which is of
course part of the Russian government
now separately he would be tested by his
country's anti-doping agency in this
case rusada who would send it to a
laboratory which is credited by the
world anti-doping agency or water which
receives funding from both the IOC and
countries like Russia and already you
can see this system looks like a
sprawling mess but I guess technically
it could work if each step was genuinely
committed to stamping out doping however
you've already seen that
one lab had a glory hole and on top of
that a recent investigation found that
rusada officers routinely accepted
bribes from athletes and gave them
advance notice of when they'd be tested
and it also found the former head of
Arif had worked with the director of
that glory hold lab to conceal positive
drug tests and while you would hope that
the IDF would have been rooting all of
this out the head of their anti-doping
department was banned for five years
after an ethics investigation at which
point this is all actually making FIFA
look good
FIFA keep FIFA and they are basically
just a mafia with slightly better
branding and finally there is water now
they are supposed to help prevent things
like this but their investigation at the
scandal got off to a rocky start because
we really only have all this information
thanks to a whistleblower a former
rusada employee named a Vitaly Stepanov
he approached Wilder with a great deal
of information but their response was
not reassuring he sent two hundred
emails and fifty letters detailing what
he had witnessed but Vitaly says water
told him it did not have the power to
investigate inside Russia now that is
true at that point water didn't have the
explicit authority but that's a bit
weird in and of itself you don't want
the global anti-drug agency to basically
have the authority of mall cops hey
thief stop or I'll be forced to go
straight to the food court and grumble
about your behavior into a bag of
Wetzel's pretzels cinemates
and while water now has more authority
and has appointed an independent
commission to investigate the evolving
Russia scandal their head
Craig Reedy sent a weirdly cozy email to
an advisor to the Russian Sports
Minister saying on a personal level I
value the relationship I have with the
minister and there is no intention in
wada to do anything to affect that
relationship which is an unsettling ly
chummy tone for a regulator to take if
Tom Colicchio promised to judge top chef
fairly but then said to one contestant I
value my relationship with you and will
do nothing to affect it the other
contestants would rightly think this is
clearly pointless here's a hot pocket go
fuck yourself and at this point I'm
supposed to tell you that Russian
officials and the former head of RF have
broadly denied all these accusations and
for his part Reedy says he's done
nothing to interfere with the
Commission's investigations and his
email had been misconstrued and you know
sure and awhile this well this clearly
isn't the system we need it might
actually be the system we want just
listen to former head of water the
phenomenally named dick pound who has a
depressing theory about why more dogmas
aren't cause machineries are there the
question is the people really want it to
work I mean you can you can do hundreds
of thousands of tests and then catch
nobody if you don't want to catch
anybody is that what you think is
happening that people don't want it to
work people don't want to work okay well
first dick pound should really insist
that everyone called him Rick or rich if
he really wants anyone to fully listen
to him but the second he actually wrote
a report for water assessing the state
of drug testing which found among the
broader sports community there is no
general appetite to undertake the effort
and expense to deliver doping free sport
which is pretty alarming we're treating
good testing like calorie counts on
restaurant menus oh everyone might say
they want it until they find out that
one
in onion is 32 million calories and
their layoffs King done and you might be
thinking well let's just give up what
why don't we just let everyone don't but
that is definitely not the answer for a
start that could be very dangerous with
athletes tempted to take greater and
greater amounts to get that split-second
edge and it could also potentially force
clean athletes to dope at which point
you've pretty much destroyed the
integrity of sport because if you want
to know what it's like to compete
against an artificially enhanced athlete
just listen to Alisha Montano she lost
at the 2012 Olympics to Maria Savin over
one of the Russian athletes implicated
in the current doping scandal this was
the first time Montaigne allowed herself
to watch the race she lost a gold
medalist Maria 7 over Montano had led
the race for about 600 meters before
finishing 5th
I mean Savin Ella passed you like you
were with all due respect literally
standing still yeah yeah and you realize
at that moment I realized I'm racing
against robots robots I'm racing against
robots she's racing against robots on it
and it wasn't just having over because
silver and bronze went to a room bar and
a roided-out Teddy Ruxpin and when she
competed against those same Russian
athletes at the World Championships the
next year it was deja vu 7 over blew by
her in the last 50 meters to finish
second all Montaigne could do was throw
herself across the finish line beat and
for the first time broken and I felt
really failed and really betrayed and I
actually felt like my career was a farce
you know that this is just what am i
doing out here what's the point what am
I doing here what's the point she's a
world-class athlete and she was left
feeling like anyone who paid for a
ticket to - now you see me - what are we
doing here well what any of us doing
here
what's the point in this what are we
doing
look look we focused on Russia here
because the details are spectacular but
they are far from the only offenders in
recent years Kenya Jamaica and China
have all had doping scandals and
American athletes have cheated to Justin
Gatlin and Tyson Gay have both been
banned for doping in the past yet
they're still expected to compete in Rio
for the US team so think of doping like
Vladimir Putin it's far from just a
Russian problem it's something that
adversely affects the entire world so it
feels like we have two choices at this
point if we truly want to clean up
sports we should empower wider by making
it truly independent and put pressure on
the broader sports system to
aggressively combat doping and if we
don't really care enough to make changes
we should at the very least make our
syrupy athlete's promos a bit more
honest ever since I was a kid I'd love
to run
my parents sometimes tell me I could run
before I could walk which doesn't really
make sense but I was believe then it's
5:00 am an Olympic hopeful Brandon
Schmidt has already been at the gym for
two hours with his coach motet wash it
pusher for sure
I've been working with Brandon ever
since he was eight years old I
discovered him sprinting across the
playground that's how I used to find my
runners just hang out our playgrounds
look for the quickest kid can't do that
anymore of course for Brandon every
morning it's the same routine first I do
cardio then weights then it's just all
the pills I could cram into my mouth
Harshit Brandon's road to Rio began
years ago in a small bedroom in Darby
Ville Ohio when I was a kid I had
posters of all my heroes Lance Armstrong
Marion Jones Ben Johnson Mark McGwire
and that one guy who took a car for 11
miles of an Olympic marathon I wanted to
be just like them from those modest
beginnings coach Jason Clark helped fill
Brandon with the stuff winners are made
of here you need your purples we've
tried pills containing everything cat
dick dog dick lizard dick Rhino dick
badger balls muskrat anuses chipmunk
fists moose face a 5-hour energy shot
straight into his eyeball Oh
one time I put a tampon full of jet fuel
up his ass oh shit
another time I got Regis Philbin to
scream into a jar and that had him
inhaling all of this just to get that
edge but even the most prepared athlete
can sometimes get caught and that's when
Brandon relies on Coach Clark's strict
regimen of excuses and go I slipped and
fell in a vat of liquid and feta means
good Beck I was walking on this dark
back alley and a guy came up and stabbed
me with the syringe full of EPO sweeter
sweeter I ate my twin in the womb I
don't believe you
then castrated boar spit in my mouth
possible I like your stick Dylan
last night I drink five beers and
everyone in America how to do you're
ready
now with his eyes on Rio and Olympic
gold brandon Schmidt is hoping that his
years of hard work will finally pay off
for me to win in Rio Eppie a fairy tale
come true you know it'd be a Cinderella
story but like if the slipper didn't
actually belong to Cinderella and she
took a lot of drugs to change the sides
of her foot to fit in the slipper and in
Prince Charming fell for it
and they lived happily ever after that's
my dream