the Republican National Convention in
Cleveland the most apocalyptic thing
ever to happen to that city and bear in
mind their River has repeatedly caught
fire now it has been over for a few days
but we thought it might be worth taking
a few extra minutes to try and figure
out what the fuck just happened because
you know you are dealing with a pretty
unconventional convention when a speaker
opens with this statement my name is
Dina white I am the president of the
Ultimate Fighting Championship the only
way that would have made sense is if his
next words were and I have clearly
sleepwalked here please gently walk me
from the stage and return me to my
family they are very worried now he was
actually there to speak to Donald
Trump's business acumen a repeated theme
throughout the whole week he gets stuff
done Donald Trump is a proven leader
innovator entrepreneur when Donald Trump
is in charge all that counts is ability
effort and excellence he has created
jobs for thousands and is one of the
greatest visionaries of our time now now
before you laughs you cannot say Trump
isn't a visionary for a long time he was
the only one who envisioned himself as a
presidential nominee he is basically
what happens if the secret gets into the
wrong hands but that message of Trump as
a skilled manager was somewhat undercut
by the fact the entire convention was a
mismanaged shit show from Melania Trump
using a partly plagiarized speech to Ted
Cruz being booed off the stage for not
endorsing Donald Trump to the fact that
supposedly Donald Trump knew Ted Cruz
wouldn't endorse him and didn't care the
decision came as no surprise to Trump
who tweeted I saw his speech two hours
early but let him speak anyway nobody
deal yeah but that's not reassuring if
the captain of the Titanic who tweeted
after the fact I saw that iceberg two
hours before and sailed into it anyway
no big deal
you wouldn't think well that captain's
sure ran a tight ship we are it's
actually fitting that Trump had
seemingly done so little to prepare for
his party's convention giving that the
party itself had done so little to
prepare for Donald Trump after the last
election the GOP published a post-mortem
report titled the growth and opportunity
project analyzing their mistakes and
laying out a plan to expand their appeal
now it featured passages like many
minorities wrongly think that
Republicans do not like them or want
them in the country and we must
emphasize the importance of a welcoming
inclusive message in particular when
discussing issues that relate directly
to a minority group unfortunately over
the past year that report and it's
carefully considered suggestions has
been overshadows by a different report
titled literally everything Donald Trump
has ever said and done because this is a
guy who suggested building a wall to
keep Mexicans out and advocated a
temporary ban on Muslims entering the
country so it's like making a new year's
resolution to eat healthy and then
spending the next year only eating meals
so large that they're free if you eat
them in one sitting but amazingly
through all the chaos and confusion this
week one theme did emerge and it was
accidentally summarized best and I can't
believe I'm saying this but Antonio
sabato jr. an IMDB page awarded actor
who delivered a relatively restrained
speech before opening his hearts
regarding President Obama to ABC News
first of all I don't believe that the
guy is a Christian I don't believe you
follows the guy that I love and the
Jesus that I love usually my President
Obama is a Muslim option is that what
you're saying absolutely and that is
based on what you feel in your art
that's what I believe yeah you know what
I have the right to believe that and you
have the right to go against that but I
believe it
now what revealing there isn't he's
mistaken belief that President Obama is
a Muslim it's also not the big shot that
Antonio sabato jr. star of the actual
vh1 reality show
Mayan
tonio is still both alive and an idiot
know what is truly revealing is his
implication that believing something to
be true is the same as it being true
because if anything that was the theme
of the Republican convention this week
it was a four day exercise in
emphasizing feelings over facts people
around the country feel the Obama
administration is kick them to the curb
our country right now is now in a very
bad spot you can feel it the vast
majority of Americans today do not feel
safe there's a lot of Americans out
there who feel like Democrat politicians
have taken them for granted the whole
economy feels stuck what do you mean it
feels stuck the economy is about numbers
feelings are supposed to be irrelevant
incidentally feelings are supposed to be
irrelevant is a phrase that's inscribed
on every British marriage certificate
and this focus this focus on feelings
reached its apex in Donald Trump's
acceptance speech which was light on
concrete policy but heavy on provoking
strong emotions decades of progress made
in bringing down crime are now being
reversed I know that corruption has
reached a level like never ever before
in our country poverty and violence at
home war and destruction abroad 180,000
illegal immigrants with criminal records
order deported from our country are
tonight roaming free to threaten
peaceful citizens holy shit he sounds
like he's about to announce the first
annual Hunger Games but look it is worth
noting that since President Obama took
office crime rates the flow of illegal
immigrants over our borders and claims
for unemployment benefits have all
declined and get frightening Lee when
reporters started pointing that out it
didn't seem to matter just watch as Newt
Gingrich brushed off any effort to
fact-check Trump's claims about the u.s.
crime rate violent crime is down the
economy is down it is not down in the
big
city's violent crime murder rate is down
how comes then how come it's up in
Chicago up in Baltimore there are
pockets where certain certainly we are
not time capital your third or third
biggest city violent crime across the
country is down the average American I
will bet you this morning does not think
crime is down does not think they are
safer but it is we are safer and it is
done no that's your view I just don't
know either I should but what I should
know what I said also effect no it isn't
no it isn't it's only a fact that that's
a feeling people have this is a graph of
the violent crime rate it's not asking
Rorschach test because infer anything
you like from it and sure you can
cherry-pick
recent optics in some cities but the
overall trend across the country during
the Obama presidency and indeed for the
last 25 years is down but Newt wasn't
done the current view is that liberals
have a whole set of statistics which
theoretically may be right but it's not
we're human beings it but what you're
saying it but hold on but Mr Speaker
because you're saying liberals use these
numbers they use this sort of magic map
this is the FBI statistics they're not a
liberal organization they're but what I
showed is equally true people feel it
more threat they feel it but the facts
don't support it as a political
candidate I'll go with how people feel
and I'll let you go with the
theoreticians he brought he just brought
a feeling to a f--king fact fight and it
is worth taking um just a moment to
seriously consider what Gingrich was
saying there because think about it I
think we can all agree that candidates
can create feelings in people and what
Gingrich is saying is that feelings are
as valid as facts so then by the
transitive property candidates can
create facts which is terrifying because
that means someone like Donald Trump can
essentially create his own reality and
that is the closest thing to an actual
magic spell I think I've ever seen
and if you're thinking we'll hold on
eventually reality will set in because
if elected Trump would actually have to
deal with facts but I'm not so sure
about that
just this week The Times reported that
not only was John Kasich asked if he had
any interest in the vice presidency by
the Trump campaign he was offered quite
a lot more Donald Trump jr. even called
one of john Kasich's top aides and said
that if he wanted the job he could even
be in charge of foreign and domestic
policy which of course is kind of
everything yeah exactly
the only thing that is not foreign
policy or domestic policy is space
policy which leads me to believe Donald
Trump's entire goal is to eventually own
the moon but but it gets better because
apparently when k-6 advisors asked what
Trump would be in charge of the response
was making America great again which
objectively is not a job but I guess it
feels like one and it seems that's all
the King matters now now the Trump
family disputed that story naturally but
it does often seem like Trump is more
interested in attention than the hard
work of getting things done in a
complicated political system just last
night he tweeted out what seemed to be
his main takeaway from this convention
okay okay first 24 out of 75 is 32% not
33 but that doesn't matter that clearly
doesn't matter the point is look the
point the notion that Donald Trump would
be a hands-off president might actually
represent the best-case scenario here
the much more frightening prospect would
be if he were hangs on because between
those 24 minutes of applause was a
symphony of bile and race-baiting
remember this is the man who has
retaliated against journalists and at
various points has advocated killing
terrorists families endorse torture and
expressed admiration for leaders like
Kim jong-un Saddam Hussein and Vladimir
Putin his message this week was the
message of every strong man ever the
world is dangerous and only I can make
you safe and if that sounds scary
there have been warning signs just watch
this DVD extra from the first season of
The Apprentice it's a it's a music video
they made and it gives you a sense of
how Donald Trump envisions himself this
is a dictatorship and I'm depicted
no boating's there's no jury oh sure hey
it's funny now to hear him say he's a
dictator as a voice in the background
says slave to the master over and over
again but unless we're careful by this
time next year that could be America's
new national anthem