school
if Pink Floyd had gone to one they'd
have known its we don't need any
education you undermined your point now
it is it's currently back-to-school
season and for millions the school
they'll be attending will be a charter
school the things the politicians love
to praise I called for a doubling of our
investment in charter schools I'm a big
believer in charter schools
I believe in public Trotta schools
charter schools work and they work very
well charter schools are so successful
that almost every politician can find
something good to say about them yes
Seana schools unite both sides of the
aisle more quickly than when a wedding
DJ throws on hay yah oh look at Nana
dancing we can never let her know what
this song is about charters are
basically public schools that the
taxpayer funded but privately run and
now the first ones in most 25 years ago
as places to experiment with new
educational approaches and since then
they've exploded there are now over 6700
charter schools educating almost 3
million students and some have celebrity
backers like Puff Daddy Andre Agassi and
even pitbull who helps helped launch
Miami's slam Academy he was a keynote
speaker at a charter school conference
in 2013 and his speech has not aged well
for reasons that all become painfully
clear they told me that uh Bill Cosby
has spoken here before which i think is
amazing someone that I really relate to
I also love jello you know yes yes that
does look bad now but to be fair it was
not commonly known at the time that
jello was responsible for dozens of
cases of sexual assault turns out jello
is a monster I think I'm legally okay to
say that
the point is jello and and look when
pitbull has a charter school it seems
like it might be worth taking a look at
them and first let me acknowledge this
is a controversial area charter
proponents will point to positive news
stories like this one about the Kipp
charter schools network most Kipp
students are chosen by lottery
regardless of prior academic record
almost all meet federal poverty guy
lines and yet 82% go on to college I
think one thing that I learned that Kipp
really well is that a lot of your effort
doesn't reap any success until way later
in the future now honestly any
philosophy that can get those kind of
results might be worth considering in
the same way that if we found out they
boosted our immunity
we'd seriously consider eating koalas
but but critics critics argue charters
overstate their successes siphon off
talented students and divert precious
resources within a school district now
for this piece and I know this is going
to make some people on both sides very
angry we're going to set aside whether
or not charter schools are a good idea
in principle because whether they are or
not in 42 states and DC we're doing them
so instead we're going to look at how
they operate in practice one group found
on average charters have a slight edge
over traditional public schools in
reading indeed about the same in math
but acknowledged charter quality is
uneven across the states and across
schools and that is putting it mildly
because around the country there have
been charter schools so flawed they
don't make it through the school year
this charter school suddenly closed its
doors in the middle of the day in Orange
County charter schools suddenly closed
its doors without notice the local
charter school is suddenly and
unexpectedly closing its doors on our
dining room table my son left these two
notes to us one says dear mom is the
school going out of business yes yes you
are right
that kid spelled business business which
I'd argue is a much better way to spell
it now that that school was actually
shut down just six weeks into the school
year so to be honest they probably
should have been much better at business
and charters in some states can have an
alarming failure rate two years ago a
Florida paper found that since 2008 a
hundred and nineteen charter schools had
closed there fourteen of which had never
even finished their first school year so
fourteen schools in Florida were
outlasted by nbc's mysteries of laura a
show which once ended an episode like
this i have a hot date tonight
who threesome actually
but a threesome joke about of king
children it was in the first season and
they gave her another one and the point
is when schools closed that fast
it's shocking because you would assume
someone would rigorously screen a school
before it was allowed to open making
sure it was financially and academically
sound but that is not always the case
take forwarders ruv academies which shut
down after just seven weeks due to a
lack of among other things a school the
schools were repeatedly kicked out of
their buildings shuttled students among
multiple sites including the signature
grand reception hall in Davie
two local churches in Fort Lauderdale
and holiday park
they also bus students on Daley field
trips because they didn't have enough
classrooms Daley field trips how's that
even possible
surely by day ten you've run out of
ideas and they're taking kids to
Marshalls to return a belt hey pretty
pretty great right kids
I'll probably get store credit so put on
your adventure hats we're about to go on
a magical twelve dollar scavenger hunt
so how did those schools get approved
well Florida's charter process begins
with a lengthy application and Ivy
Academy's was four hundred pages long
and their founder Trayvon Mitchell
included passages like this one
beginning instruction is scaffolded to
provide targeted support with the goal
of increasing independence it goes on
and it sounds great but weirdly we found
this application by a school called
Franklin Academy in Fort Lauderdale
which predates that by two years and
which features this passage which begins
instruction will scaffold and then
continues in almost exactly the same way
it's basically identical but for a few
small differences like the Olsen twins I
mean you know you know one of them came
first and then Mary Kate plagiarized her
face
now that behavior might not be illegal
but it's certainly unethical or if I
make once from the IV Academy handbook
you will not plagiarize works that you
find on the Internet plagiarism is
taking the ideas or writings of others
and presenting them as if they were
yours so the application for Mitchel
school would also have been grounds for
him getting thrown out of that school
and incidentally that's not the only
thing he may have stolen he has since
been accused of spending funds for
students on himself and is awaiting
trial for grand theft and the problem
with the approval process being to
Easy's there is a lot at stake in
charter schools they get paid on a per
student basis on average that's about
seven thousand dollars for every
enrollment and that adds up take
Philadelphia's Harambee charter school I
know I know they named it a long time
ago and it's spelled differently your
king monsters rest in peace now that's
gone that's gone received more than five
million dollars in taxpayer money at the
same year that this story emerged by day
the Harambee Institute charter school
looks like any other educating some 450
students from kindergarten through
eighth grade but by night the cafeteria
turns into club domani
a bar that authorities say is unlicensed
and illegal oh wow a nightclub in an
elementary school is a recipe for
disaster because those are the two most
vomit prong populations in the world
they must've had to Febreze the out
of that place now you'll be glad to hear
that that schools under new leadership
now although that might be because its
CEO pled guilty to fraud for embezzling
nearly 80 thousand dollars from the
Harambee Institute rest in peace and and
look you can say that's an isolated
incident but it isn't in Philadelphia
alone at least 10 executives or top
administrators have pled guilty in the
last decade to charges like fraud
misusing funds and obstruction of
justice which may be why Philly magazine
advises parents don't forget to Google
any schools you're looking at to make
sure they won't once unexpectedly shut
down or run by a CEO who pleaded guilty
to theft all of which speaks to a
general atmosphere perhaps best
articulated by the state auditor I said
it before and I will say it again
Pennsylvania has the worst charter
school in the United States that is not
good because it is not like having the
worst something is new for Pennsylvania
remember this is a state that has the
worst football fans the worst Bell and
the worst regional delicacy yes if I
wanted Cheez Whiz on my steak sandwich I
need a kiddy cafeteria the restaurant
run by six-year-olds and and I'm not
even sure Pennsylvania deserves to be
called the worst because
Ohio's charter law was for decades so
lacks even charter advocates have called
it the Wild West
the state has around 360 charters and
their Governor John Kasich
speaks often about how much he loves
choice and competition in schools we
will improve the public schools if
there's a sense of competition it's just
like a pizza shop in the town if there's
only one and and there's not much
pepperoni on it you can call til you're
blue in the face but the best way to get
pepperoni on more pepperoni on that
pizza is to open up a second pizza shop
and that's what's going to improve our
public schools
okay okay that doesn't work on any level
first no one has ever called it a pizza
shop second it's a little hard to hear
the man who just defunded Planned
Parenthood talked about the importance
of choice third there's such a thing
there is such a thing as paying for
extra pepperoni like a normal person
and finally the notion that the more
pizza shops there are the better pizza
becomes is effectively undercut by the
two words Papa John's but but Ohio's
charters have had huge problems with
lack of oversight a review of one year's
state audits found charters misspent
public money nearly four times more
often than any other form of
taxpayer-funded agency and some cases
are incredible like that of Lisa ham a
school superintendent who was accused of
spending money for her school on sparse
jewelry luggage plays Vetri care and
trips to Europe and to see Oprah she
took a plea deal without admitting guilt
but not before delivering this fantastic
explanation proverbs says without vision
people perish and it's very important
for people to have a vision for their
own lives and in order to do that they
need to experience what's possible in
life and in order to transfer that to
the children they have to experience it
themselves that is amazing
she's just spouting a bunch of vague
about inspiration crossing her
fingers and hoping people will buy it
and you know what when you put it like
that I feel like she has learned a lot
from Oprah money well-spent and it's
Nellie for the record when she quoted
proverb saying where there is no vision
the people perish she's leaving out the
very next line which is but he that
keepeth the law happy is he and that's a
king important caveat
and what's crazy is there are ways to
profit off of charter schools perfectly
legally in Ohio and there have been for
years
look at this episode of frontline from
2000 by law
charter schools must be nonprofit but
the schools can hire an educational
management company or a mo to run the
school and the e mo can try to make a
profit
Brennan calls his e mo white hat
management education is first last and
always a business if it's run like a
business it can be done profitably yes
education is first last and always a
business take the L off the word
learning and what do you got earning
take the e off it what do you got then
arning yeah sure that's not a word but
it could be in one of our English
classes now that man's company white hat
management worked on two contracts where
each charter would pay ninety five
percent or more of its government
funding to white hats which as a private
company isn't obligated to provide the
same level of transparency as say a
school district so taxpayers could have
little idea how that money was being
spent and who can say if that's a good
system or not all I know is white hat
ran thirty two of the lowest performing
schools in the state and if you do
essentially the same terrible thing more
than 30 times in a row you're not a
management company
you basically Billy Joel's Greatest Hits
volumes two and three and at this point
you may be thinking charters were
completely unmonitored but that is where
you would actually be wrong because they
are approved and overseen by what are
called authorizes and while some states
sharply limit who can be an authorizer
Ohio allowed many different groups
including nonprofits to do it meaning
well let's say I wanted to open the John
Oliver Academy for nervous boys
and let's say I had a pre-existing
nonprofit called Johnny's kids that
could potentially have overseen my
school and that basically happened
take the Richard Allen chain of schools
in Ohio whose president was a woman
called Jeannette Harris
they were overseen by Kids Count a
non-profit founded by Jeannette Harris
which oversaw the schools as they spent
a million tax dollars on management and
consulting firms founded by wait for it
Jeannette King Harris now Harris denies
a conflict of interest because she
claims she wasn't directly involved in
decision-making and maybe maybe the
school's just chose Kids Count because
it had a proven track record of great
oversight so let's let's just check in
on one of the other schools they oversaw
a local charter school padded its
attendance records resulting in more
than a million dollars in extra money
state auditors interviewed students and
staff their findings show that on any
given day there would only be about 30
students in the building a fraction of
the reported 459 enrolled there oh it
gets worse because when an auditor
looked into it they found Kids Count had
done the legal minimum oversight
required which I would argue suggests a
problem with the legal minimum because
thirty kids showed up and the school
claims they had four hundred and fifty
which doesn't speak well of an oversight
group calling itself Kids Count now
though oh hi oh has passed a new law to
try and clean up some of the problems
you've seen but serious damage has
already been done and incredibly there
is one more way that charter schools
around the country have been allowed to
run wild because we haven't even
mentioned online charters yet they serve
a hundred eighty thousand students and
even if they just get the average seven
thousand dollars per student that's over
a billion dollars in taxpayer money
going to cyber charters annually and
some have an attendant system you would
not believe sometimes kids aren't
counted absent until they have failed to
log on for five days in a row
and some are never required to attend
class but the state still requires the
schools to report attendance so most
just report a hundred percent even
though that's
not what's really going on that's just
crazy you're basically giving kids a box
containing videogames pornography and
long division and claiming a hundred
percent of them chose the right one and
look some kids might need online
education but it has got to be monitored
better because one major study found
compared to kids in traditional public
schools students in online charters lost
the equivalent of 72 days of learning
and reading and 180 days in math during
the course of a 180 day school year and
180 - 180 is as those kids might put it
three now
charter advocates will tell you that
even they are concerned about online
schools and they'll argue some states
have much better oversight than the ones
that we've seen and that is true though
for the record some may even be worse
once you're a researcher told Ohio be
very glad that you have Nevada so you
are not the worst which I believe is the
motto on Nevada state licensed place but
the point is we don't even have time to
get into Nevada and advocates will argue
all these closings shall accountability
inaction just like in business bad
schools closed but there's a king
problem there as one former charter
school employee explains this isn't just
a regular business this isn't a
restaurant that you just open up you
serve your food people don't like it you
close it and you move on this is
Education this is students are getting
left in the middle of the year without a
school to go to so I just think that
there needs to be some filter as to
who's opening up these charter schools
exactly the problem with letting the
free market decide when it comes to kids
is that kids change faster than the
market and by the time it's obvious the
school is failing futures may have been
ruined so if we are going to treat
charter schools like pizza shops we
should monitor them at least as well as
we do pizzerias it's like the old saying
give a kid a shitty pizza you've got
their day treat a kid like a shitty
pizza you could cut their entire life