these 2016 presidential election or as
it's more commonly known the electoral
equivalent of seeing someone puking so
you start puking and then someone else
is puking and pretty soon everyone is
puking 2016 the first presidential
debate is tomorrow night more than a
hundred million people could be watching
two candidates whose campaigns have been
defined less by questions about their
policies than their ethics every day is
another drip drip drip of scandal for
Hillary Clinton another Clinton scandal
is too many scandals to have followed
her and Bill Clinton over the years what
about the Trump scandals another Trump
campaign scandal another booming scandal
of the day with him but there are so
many it's hard to keep track
listen we have had scandals during
campaigns in the past from Barack
Obama's financial dealings with Tony
Resco to george w bush's a National
Guard service to the revelation that
Dwight D Eisenhower's middle initial
stood for Deez Nuts but but this
campaign this campaign the scandals have
been so pronounced polls show that less
than half the electorate sees either
candidate as honest or trustworthy and
you may not like either candidate for
good reasons but if you are still
somehow torn about which one to vote for
and are factoring their scandals into
your decision we thought it might help
to spend tonight walking you through
them so let's start with Hillary Clinton
the woman who if she loses will sit
there motionless not speaking until he
eventually dies and I do know that even
talking about her scandals will irritate
some of you given that her opponent is
an unambiguously racist scarecrow stuff
with scrunched up copies of juggs
magazine and that's fair that is a fair
point but not being as bad as Donald
Trump is a low bar to clear and if you
focus on nothing but him you fail to bet
a woman who might be president and if
you believe the internet she's guilty of
everything just click around and you can
find such masterworks as Hillary Clinton
Hillary ordered the murder of the
children of Waco Hillary the butcher of
Benghazi and my personal favorite is
Hillary Clinton Satan Hillary I am the
devil
and that's in quotes on the internet so
she must have said it although although
to be fair she could have been referring
to her time with the New Jersey Devils
mascot now now many of Hillary's most
famous scandals have been heavily
litigated in the past for instance Rock
Bear whitewater now more than six years
of investigations by three different
prosecutors and multiple congressional
committees failed to find sufficient
evidence of wrongdoing then there was
Benghazi now eight congressional
investigations broadly concluded the
State Department could have done more to
increase security of the embassy but non
found evidence of wrongdoing by Clinton
and then there is the problematic issue
of the Swiss file transfer and while yes
investigators found hillary was in
zurich at the time of the transfer and
documents show she was aware the
transfer took place and yet the Clintons
did have something to gain financially
from it the fact is the Swiss file
transfer is something I just made up
right now but the very fact that for a
second you kind of remembered it there's
something about the tone of coverage
surrounding Clinton but no but many
rational people are still worried about
two particular scandals it turns out
nearly half of all Americans are very
concerned about both her emails and the
Clinton Foundation so let's start with
the emails which you may remember from
their starring role at the Republican
National Convention she put our nation's
security at extremely high risk with
their careless use of a private email
server Hillary Clinton cared more about
protecting her own secrets that she
cared about protecting America's secrets
she jeopardized the American people our
national security with her secret email
server she lied okay
Hillary's emails were basically the
unofficial theme of the RNC
right alongside how loud can Giuliani
scream and Happy Days residuals can't
buy you attention but but while some of
Hillary's opponents feel her email
scandal should put her in prison at
least at the beginning she claimed there
was nothing to see everything I did was
permitted there was no law there was no
regulation there was nothing that
did not give me the full authority to
decide how I was going to communicate
and people across the government knew
that I used one device maybe it was
because I am NOT the most technically
capable person and wanted to make it as
easy as possible and now I think it's
kind of fun people get a real-time
behind-the-scenes look at you know what
I was mailing about and what I was
communicating about now that is a bad
answer for a number of reasons first she
says everything I did was permitted
which isn't remotely true the use of a
private email server would have required
prior approval and she never asked for
it then she blamed not being technically
capable which is a fine excuse Piedad
when he accidentally text you the letter
Q ten times but it's pretty shitty
coming from a Secretary of State and
then she captured off by saying the
whole thing is kind of fun which it
definitely isn't unless every single one
of her emails was just a jpeg of a dog
dressed as Dracula in which case yeah
you know what that is kind of fun so
there have been exaggerations on both
sides and while she since acknowledged
that her use of the server was a mistake
the idea persist that it was a good deal
more so let's walk through what we
actually know Hillary claims this
started you to a simple tech issue
because when she took office in 2009
Department issued BlackBerry's couldn't
access two different email accounts
Clinton said today was more convenient
for her to carry one device instead of
separate devices for work and personal
emails looking back it would have been
better for me to use two separate phones
and two email accounts I thought using
one device would be simpler and
obviously it hasn't worked out that way
yeah no shit
so this whole situation could
potentially have been avoided if she
just had the ability to carry two
BlackBerry's
meaning it's the only time the best
advice a politician could have received
was cargo shorts so if she wanted one
phone she had a few options first
he was a state gov email address for all
her emails meaning her personal emails
would reside on government servers
potentially making them more accessible
to request for
public records so instead Hilary spent
everything through a non-government
address it's a practice that's legal but
highly discouraged although she is by no
means the only one who has done that
others include : powell
john kerry chris Christie Jeb Bush Rick
Perry Scott Walker
martin O'Malley Greg Abbott Bobby Jindal
Sarah Palin Ashton Carter and Karl Rove
and EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson had a
different work around using a second
government email under the alias Richard
Windsor which turned out to be a mash-up
of her dog's name and her family's
hometown so she was basically doing
government business under her porn name
which cannot catch on because nobody
won't be writing to Housing and Urban
Development Secretary who Leanne Castro
at bug dot thunder junk at HUD bow that
can't happen but Hillary went much
further than just having a private email
she had a long private server and it
wasn't just any old server to put an
email server at your house is not a it's
a complicated thing yeah but it was
already there it had been there for
years it is the system that my husband's
personal office used when he got out of
the White House and so it was sitting
there in the basement wait wait you used
a server that Bill Clinton had been
using which was in your basement I hate
to tell you this but you just stored
government records on a machine that
bill called the porn master 5,000 I love
that machine Old Faithful
now the private server wasn't the only
way hilary communicated there was a
separate official government system for
classified information unfortunately
some email sent to Hillary did contain
pieces of information that were
classified in nature the FBI found 113
such emails though in fairness only
three of them had classification markers
and were not in the header of the email
as they should have been and while the
FBI found Clinton and her staff to be
extremely careless they said they
couldn't find a case that would support
bringing criminal charges so it's not
good but it's not as bad as it looks
which is never a satisfying thing to
hear or indeed read above the buffet at
a Golden Corral so so that is basically
the emails let's now move on to the
Clinton Foundation six months ago it was
known as the top-rated global foundation
that has among other things helped
millions around the world access lower
cost HIV treatment but it has now become
possibly the only charity that inspires
more visceral anger than this one
[Music]
shut up
shut up what be security your kids you
can't write what money-laundering scheme
are you operated the point the point is
the controversy with the Clinton
Foundation it's not so much what they
did with their money
it's the possible conflict of interest
in taking donations from individuals and
foreign governments with business before
the State Department and to be fair in
2008 the foundation tried to head this
off by promising the Obama
administration they not only disclose
all donations but also get advance
approval for any coming from certain
foreign governments which they did but a
few slip through
that's one involving Algeria donating
half a million dollars although there's
no proof that State Department policy
was swayed as a result more concerning
is one involving Russia which does sound
bad reports out overnight say the State
Department with Clinton at the helm
approved the sale of one of America's
largest uranium mines to Russia at the
same time a foundation controlled by the
mines chairman was making donations to
the Clinton Foundation we are talking
about some big money here for separate
donations totaling two point three five
million dollars and these reports say
that the donations were not publicly
disclosed holy shit there are so many
not good words in that one soundbite
Russia uranium controls big money and
not disclosed it could only be worse if
it also contained the words orifice
sharp but jug and Cosby now now brace
yourself because this gets pretty dense
basically the Canadian chairman of the
mining company that was eventually sold
to Russia had also given money to the
Clinton Foundation but instead of doing
it directly
he gave it through this Canadian
affiliate which didn't disclose his name
because it didn't have to because the
affiliate wasn't actually included in
that agreement the Clinton Foundation
signed with the Obama administration so
neither the law nor the agreement were
technically violated though the spirit
of the agreement definitely was
so again this looks bad especially given
that the State Department did sign off
on the sale of that uranium mile to
Russia but not only was Hillary not
involved in that decision but eight
other federal agencies plus the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission also had to sign
off which they did
so this donation was legal but very
annoyingly handled at any suggestion of
pay-for-play fails to account for the
separate actions of nine unrelated
government agencies basically it's
complicated and like the movie is
complicated it probably would have been
best for everyone if it had never
happened but no one broke the law and
look we've spent several frustrating
weeks trawling through all the innuendo
and exaggerations surrounding her email
and foundation scandals and the worst
thing you can say is they both look bad
but the harder you look the less you
actually find there's not nothing there
what is there is irritating rather than
grossly nefarious and this it worked
instructive to compare her to her
opponent Donald Trump America's
wealthiest hemorrhoid because if you are
struggling with the idea of voting for
Hillary because of all this you need to
take a long hard look at Trump if you're
irritated by her lying that is
understandable but he is quantifiably
worse
PolitiFact checked around the same
number of statements from both of them
over the years and found around 13% of
Hillary statements to be flatly false
but for Trump that figure was a whopping
53% presumably it's only that low
because the rest of the time you were
saying things like this if he bunker
weren't my daughter perhaps they'd be
dating her
we're yeah that's probably true and the
fact is probably true is what makes it
so horrifying and if you're thinking
okay Hillary may not lie as much as
Trump but she needs to be more
transparent that's fair enough but bear
in mind we know almost nothing about
Trump's finances and that is not good
he's the first major party nominee since
1980
not to release his tax returns and his
justification is pathetic
I will absolutely give my return but I'm
being audited now for two or three years
so I can't do it until the audit is
finished but yes you can the IRS has
explicitly said you don't need to wait
for a completed audit to release them
you're just saying two completely
unrelated things oh I'd love to pick you
up from the airport but I can't because
a blue whale's tongue weighs as much as
an elephant
what does are you talking about those
two things have nothing to do with each
other
and on top of Trump's personal tax
record there are unanswered questions
about his business dealings as many
experts have pointed out his investments
debts and business ties span the globe
and could present unprecedented ethical
challenges for a president now
traditionally presidential candidates in
that kind of situation promised to put
their financial holdings into a blind
trust where an independent trustee is
given control over their investment but
when Trump was asked if he would do that
as well he seemed not to know what it
meant are you planning on putting your
assets in a blind trust should you
become president I have Ivanka and Eric
and Don sitting there run the company
kids have a good time I'm going to do it
for America
I would put it in a blind set well I
don't know if it's a blind trust if
Ivanka Don and Eric run it but is that a
blind trust I don't know no that is not
a blind trust it's the opposite of what
almost anything else you could have said
would have been closer to a blind trust
oh I'm gonna put my assets in an
upside-down doghouse filled with pudding
is that a blind trust no that's
ridiculous but you're actually closer
than you were before and even more
alarmingly when George Stephanopoulos
talked to Donald Trump jr. he didn't
seem to understand what a blind trust
was either it's not a blind trust if you
and your siblings are still running
we're not gonna be involved in
government we wouldn't even know the
government it's not a blind trust you're
running the company and he's president
so any cut for Newman he's not making
any decisions as it relates to the
company but a blind trust it's not a
blind trust if it's being run by his
children it is because he'll have
nothing to do with a George he's still
going to know what the businesses are
where they are we will not know we're
not gonna discuss those fight we'll just
say it doesn't matter you cross me what
truck do the only reasonable thing to
trust you on is which hair products can
best make someone look like a 1980
serial killer that's it look it's the
financial action of the Clinton
Foundation annoy you let me introduce
you to the trunk foundation and I'm not
talking about the estimated 12 pounds of
foundation that Trump wears on his face
I'm talking about his charitable
organization The Washington Post has
been investigating and has found among
other things that Trump has not
personally given it any money since 2008
and just this week this story broke
Donald Trump is facing questions tonight
about his charitable foundation after a
report today in the Washington Post the
foundation spent more than a quarter of
a million dollars of donated money to
settle lawsuits against Trump businesses
yes Trump reportedly used his
Foundation's money which have been
donated by people for charitable
purposes as a tool to make some legal
disputes go away or on the spectrum of
shittiest things you can do that is
right
with catfishing a baby owl he waited all
night for you and he's nocturnal so
that's his day gone and Trump also
allegedly used foundation money to
purchase ridiculous items for himself in
another instance Trump's foundation paid
ten thousand dollars at a charity
auction in 2014 for a portrait painted
of Trump it was the second time Trump
used Foundation funds for a portrait of
him okay okay okay wait wait wait wait
just for a start what is he doing with
his face in that photo that is not a
smile that's waking up in the middle of
a colonoscopy and also on top of that
how did that portrait cost ten thousand
dollars it looks like someone's Xerox a
black-and-white picture of Trump and
then paint it over it with condiments
from Burger King now now what Trump did
there would technically be legal as long
as the portrait itself was put to some
charitable purpose well Univision found
it and it wasn't exactly in an orphanage
if it'll gather up this is the painting
that Donald Trump purchased with funds
donated to the charitable foundation
that carries his last name this morning
when he BC on gotta scoop that the
artwork remained hanging inside the
restaurant champions Bar and Grill
inside the Doral hotel and golf course a
property owned by Donald Trump now in
Trump's defense that portrait is the
perfect pairing for his restaurant
signature dishes which are apparently
according to Yelp reviewers watery
tomato chunks with no flavor and craft
beer brand misspelled on the menu and it
is not just portraits Trump also wants
to use Foundation funds to buy a signed
Tim Tebow helmet a steal at $12,000 for
something that once contains the head of
America's worst quarterback he also
Hughes funds to make an illegal
political donation to support Florida AG
Pam Bondi around the time that she was
considering investigating he is not a
university university so it seems the
Trump foundation may exist primarily to
benefit Trump himself in which case they
should really change the name to
something more appropriate
the National Association for the
Advancement of Donald Trump or the
n-double ADP for short and the thing is
we've barely scratched the surface of
his scandals there is everything from
the ongoing lawsuits against that
bullshit university to the alleged use
of undocumented workers when building
Trump Tower to the fact he received an
illegal 3.5 million dollar loan from his
father in the form of a purchase of
chips from one of trumps casinos and
that loan could not have been shadier if
it was given in baggies of cocaine or
the bones of endangered species look the
point is this campaign has been
dominated by scandals but it is
dangerous to think that there is an
equal number on both sides and you can
be irritated by some of Hillary's that
is understandable but you should then be
king outraged by Trump's think of it
like this all failing in a politician
are like raisins in a cookie they
shouldn't be there
they disgust people but most politicians
have at least a few raisins and Hillary
is a cookie like this one she arguably
has more raisins than average there's
probably 10 of those little fuckers in
there but we all need to remember that
when it comes to Donald Trump this is
the amount of raisins that bee
represents the man
everybody
almost unprecedented degree so you don't
like Layden
I get it they're disgusting but
unfortunately this November you can have
to swallow ten or we're all going to be
eating this shit for years