the police who as these Montana cops
show frequently have to deal with
humanity at its worst
what's the first amendment what's the
first name Dan right we're at it what's
the first amendment you don't even know
ah Constitution yeah yeah Constitution
absolutely read it and live by it let's
have a seat in the back of the car
let us see Ron Paul 2012 and he's as
perfect it's it's not like he needed to
say Ron Paul 2012 that was implicit in
everything he said up to that point but
it's certainly nice to have it confirmed
now as you know the police have been at
the center of a great deal of
controversy lately it's been impossible
to escape from the black lives matter
movement to Colin Kaepernick's protest
to mary j blige awkwardly singing a
Springsteen song at Hillary Clinton is
it a gun is it a nice is it or wallet
this is your life you can hear kill just
living in your American skin
oh hello me thank you
Oh God Oh God
Hilary would have won my undying respect
if she just looked mary j blige straight
in the face and said I support your
message but that was awkward as fuck and
I wish you hadn't done it that would
have been honest now now the trust
between police and the communities they
serve
is clearly a cornerstone of civilized
society unfortunately that Trust has
been rocked following a series of
controversial police shootings from
Elton Sterling to Philander Casteel to
Tamir rice to so many others I literally
cannot mention them all and cumulatively
these deaths taken with countless
smaller incidents of police misconduct
have led to a common refrain listen I
just want the police to be held
accountable we just want the system of
policing to be held accountable those
police need to be held accountable the
same way that you gonna hold me
accountable if I broke the law whenever
they mess up whenever they commit a
crime whenever something goes wrong I'm
too much serious stuff like murder and
whatnot
these guys never get prosecuted now
those are valid frustrations although as
a quick sidenote murder and whatnot
would be an amazing CSI spin-off that's
a watchable show right there so police
accountability is what we're going to be
talking about tonight and before we go
any further I should say as the police
will tell you they have a difficult
dangerous challenging job no reasonable
person would disagree with that but
that's all the more reason for ensuring
that it's done to the highest standard a
cake decorator has a challenging job but
the worst thing that happens if he fucks
up is you end up wishing someone a happy
anniversary and yeah well that's
obviously not ideal who knows maybe it's
their anal versary too
the police will also argue that what
they have is less an institutional
problem than it is an individual one
there's been some bad apples out there I
think that but I don't think that that
is indicative of the entire police
department yeah you got bad apples but
you got bad apples and every occupation
just like any business you're gonna have
some bad apples they're out to protect
you and that's what policing is about
are there bad apples yeah okay
that is a weirdly blasé attitude because
bad apples can erode trust fast Snow
White
wasn't afraid of apples before she took
a bite out of that one really bad one
but I'm telling you the next time an old
lady comes out there with a piece of
fruit snow is gonna get the can up there
and that argument it's just a few bad
apples has some real problems for a
start it doesn't address bad laws and
policies that good officers are made to
enforce which we've touched on multiple
times before criminal justice is kind of
our show's signature bit it is to us
what assessing the shape of your poop is
to dr. oz also you can't claim there's
just a few bad apples when no one knows
exactly how many there are there are
nearly 18,000 different police
departments in America and they are not
great about reporting or sharing data in
fact even some surprisingly basic
questions are hard to answer as the head
of the FBI admits we can't have an
informed discussion because we don't
have data people have data about who
went to a movie last weekend or how many
books were sold or how many cases of the
flu walked into an emergency room and I
cannot tell you how many people were
shot by police in the United States last
month last year or anything about the
demographics how is that possible we
have numbers for almost everything we
have ratings for how many people watched
Jeremy Piven in mr. selfridge the
government even tracks how many people
are killed by falling TVs each year a
number surely inflated by people who are
watching mr. Selfridge and said I choose
death and then pull the
down on top of it in fact the best
numbers on police misconduct come from a
researcher named Philip Stinson who
accumulated over a decade's worth of
data by setting up 48 google alerts in
2005 Google Alerts and his stats are
truly chilling out of thousands of fatal
police shooting since 2005 only 77
officers have been charged with murder
or manslaughter and to date only 26 have
been convicted and while the truth is
many police shootings are justified 26
seems suspiciously low so how can that
be the number well broadly speaking most
investigations of police misconduct
faced a few obstacles and the first one
is big misconduct is often investigated
internally by officers colleagues which
does not inspire confidence although if
you listen to the police chief in
Bakersville California the system is
just fine
you're absolutely confident that
structure of review is entirely
impartial
I am I these guys are experts in the
field they reported ahamed they're
investigating they have hundreds of
years of law enforcement experience
combined and so I have the utmost
confidence in these individuals here's
the thing their combined experience is
not a thing that automatically makes you
do a better job our staff has a combined
347 years in television and that doesn't
mean we won't just throw off load of
raisins on a desk and call it
entertainment and and and unsurprisingly
the DOJ has consistently found flaws
with internal investigations in
Cleveland investigators admitted they
intentionally cast an officer in the
best light possible when investigating a
use of deadly force and in Miami
investigations took so long that at
least two officers shot and killed a
suspect while still under investigation
for a previous shooting and there should
never be a second one of anything before
you figure out whether the first was
justified call it the Dolphin Tale to
rule how is there a second one of these
I thought Harry Connick jr. ate the
dolphin at the end of the first one I
don't know for sure I haven't seen it
but no one has and that's the fucking
point and in Baltimore the DOJ report
included the story of Joe crystal a
detective who had reported to fellow
officers for alleged excessive force and
was labeled a rat with one colleague
leaving pictures of cheese on his desk
which is almost charming until you learn
how far some others went he found
himself cut off he says he didn't get
back up in dangerous situations
someone even left a dead rat and his
windshield was like their way of telling
me you know you don't belong here this
is what we think of you ouch
leaving a dead rat on an officer's
windshield is definitely hostile unless
of course that officer is a police cat
in which case it means welcome to the
force whiskers we're lucky to have you
enjoy the rat but police accountability
doesn't just suffer from an unwritten
code of silence that code can be
enshrined within state laws or union
contracts as well for instance one
reason it can be hard to spot problem
officers is that in many jurisdictions
policies allow disciplinary records to
be destroyed in Baton Rouge a sustained
complaints can be stricken from your
record after just 18 months and in Mesa
Arizona when a journalist started
demanding records a police chief
actually made an internal video
reminding his officers that there was a
way for them to clean up their past
I don't want anybody have to relive a
problem that's already been adjudicated
that they've already been disciplined
for that has already seen the scrutiny
in the public eye so perjure files
according to policy make sure that
there's that the things that you don't
want in there aren't in there that seems
wrong you should not be able to erase
parts of your past that are damning this
is an official police file not like
Volkswagen corporate history that
somehow starts after World War two yeah
Nazi cars the choice of the Nazis
and deleting records is not an officer's
only option to escape their past
sometimes after an incident they'll
simply resign and move to another Police
Department this happened so much people
in law enforcement called them gypsy
cops in South Carolina TV station looked
into one officer who spent a total of
nine years on the job working for nine
different departments three of them in
just one year and in one case he left in
spectacular fashion deputies believe
Yarborough's driving ability was
compromised and they said they
discovered a half-empty bottle of rye
whiskey and a baggie of assorted pills
in his patrol cruiser according to the
state records Yarborough said I'm not
taking no drug test
I guess I'll resign holy shit I'm not
taking no drug test
I guess I'll resign is a sentence you do
not want to hear from a police officer
it's barely appropriate coming from a
roadie leaving Aerosmith and gypsy cops
have been involved in tragic incidents
in the Tamir rice case the officer who
shot the twelve-year-old had been in the
process of being fired from his previous
job before resigning
but the Cleveland Police missed that red
flag when hiring him because they didn't
read his personnel file which detailed
an incident during weapons training
where he had a dangerous loss of
composure leading his supervisor to
conclude I do not believe time nor
training will be able to change or
correct these deficiencies that is the
kind of performance review that should
keep you from getting hired at Staples
let alone a job where you're given a
f--king gun that cop by the way was
never even charged like many such cases
his never made it past the grand jury
which seems inherently surprising until
you realize local prosecutors and cops
have to work together all the time which
can get very complicated as a former
prosecutor I can tell you you work with
the police you rely upon the police you
trust the police the police are in your
office reviewing evidence examining
evidence preparing for trial and then
have to turn around and prosecute them
to prosecute you exactly for a
prosecutor to go after a cop they work
with is incredibly awkward
I can't think of anything more
inherently awkward other than of course
this oh thank you oh god oh god it's not
getting any better nothing in Hillary's
life has ever been more awkward than
that and think about what a high bar
that is an even when cases go to trial
officers have a major advantage which is
that juries tend to have a natural
predisposition to trust them police
officers truly get a presumption of
innocence whereas most criminal
defendants don't come in with any
presumption of innocence you're swimming
upstream usually a judge will toss the
case at a preliminary hearing or a grand
jury will refused to indict so you never
even get the trial and jurors just do
not come in with any belief whatsoever
that officers can commit a crime they
just don't it's true many people see a
police uniform and automatically think
trustworthy unless of course it includes
a sleeveless shirt and a boom box in
which case they think stripper and
sometimes weight gym from middle school
and under under the law the police
generally have a certain amount of
leeway regarding lethal force meaning
that fatal shootings can be considered
legal even if they are unnecessary or
disproportional there is even a
shorthand for such cases it's lawful but
awful which I believe is also the legal
definition of Woody Allen's marriage I
think that's it
who are you angry with here
put the booze back in your pockets and
on top of all this officers can bring in
expert witnesses who can present nearly
any situation as a potential threats
take dr. bill Nowinski who runs
something called the force Science
Institute for years he has testified on
behalf of police officers here he is
providing a rationale for why it may be
okay to shoot someone that has a knife
knives can actually be more dangerous
than a gun they don't have to be
reloaded they can be used at close
distance we know that a stab from a
knife or stab or a cut can be extremely
quick hey come on
that is not the motion you make when you
are stabbing someone that is the motion
you make when you are a teenager
magician finishing a trick is this your
card but but there is no doubt there is
no doubt a knife is a dangerous weapon
but what if someone doesn't have a knife
dr. Lewinsky could force still be
necessary when someone is unarmed first
of all it's significant to know that
unarmed doesn't mean they're not
dangerous in fact a fist may have been
the very first weapon that human beings
used against each other I measured
strikes on human beings by other humans
and the strikes can occur at a speed of
four or five or six strikes in a second
and some of them really hard what is he
talking about the only type of fist is a
match for a weapon is during a game of
rock-paper-scissors and even then it can
be defeated by paper with four reasons
which make no sense to me whatsoever but
that's not the point
look look defendants are allowed to call
expert witnesses of course what is weird
is lewinsky has appeared before grand
juries which is where prosecutors are
supposed to present their best
unchallenged case for an officer's
indictment so why would they let
Lewinsky in there they're essentially
shooting their own case in the foot
which is presumably justified because
feet were the second weapon ever
invented
unless we've we focused heavily on
trials here but in a perfect world there
would be enough accountability
throughout policing that the blunt
instrument of a trial would very rarely
be necessary so how can we fix all this
well for starting a body cameras have
increased transparency and Trust in many
places in Rialto California after just
one year of using them the number of
complaints filed against officers fell
by 88% and the use of force drops by
around 60% and when Baltimore's trial
run of a body camera program ended their
Police Commissioner begged for their
return police officers want cameras I
think this is just a moment where
everybody wants cameras I was speaking
to some folks just before we came in
here and apparently we had a couple
police officers who were turning in
their body worn cameras and they were
asking you know when can i when can we
get these back right and these cops
aren't M night Shyamalan if they plead
with you to let them have a camera again
you should give it to them give it to
them and body cameras are obviously just
one solution other cities have tried
requiring officers to file separate
reports every time there's a use of
force or they've used early intervention
systems to try and spot problem officers
or they brought in outside prosecutors
to handle controversial cases the
problem is police unions fiercely fight
any attempted reforms just listen to
James Stewart head of the biggest police
union in Newark where the DOJ found that
three-quarters of police stops had no
legal justification to listen to him if
anything the police are being too
scrutinized I don't know where the
problem started but there is an
animosity or a lack of trust you know as
soon as there's any sort of physical
force exerted by a police officer
everybody's got their cell phones out
you know they want to catch us doing
something wrong when you got the cop out
there in the street facing all this
negative opposition day in and day out
does it come a point when the police
officer is gonna say hey you know what
maybe he doesn't have to go to jail yeah
maybe I'll take the path of least
resistance maybe I'll put the blinders
on as I'm driving by the corner where
the ten guys are hanging out okay yeah
there is a lot to unpack there first
throwing a ten
and threatening not to do your job
because you face public criticism is
pretty childish you think Steven Seagal
gave up on his movie career just because
people said mean things of course not
just this year he starred in end of a
gun the perfect weapon the Asian
connection code of honor and sniper
special ops why cuz he's a king
professional that's why and he commits
to his job but but but more importantly
when you say you might ignore 10 people
hanging out on a corner yeah
maybe do that because that's not
typically a crime in in some cases 10
people on a corner is just a king
yardsale still for many people
Stuart's argument that you know for
police to be effective they need to be
given broad leeway to use force is very
appealing
it's especially appealing for those of
us who for whatever reason are fairly
confident that that force won't be
applied to them but it is worth looking
at the actual cost of that trade-off
because a lack of trust in police
accountability leads to a lack of trust
in police and we now have reached the
point where there are schools who host
classes like this one to teach kids how
to safely interact with law enforcement
I want you to repeat after me I want you
to say officer am I free to go
one more time officer Oh am I free to go
the hope is with this simple advice
teens can protect their rights and maybe
their lives that is so fucking
depressing especially when you realize
that's probably the only class where
nobody will raise their hand and say
when are we ever going to use this and
when you see something like that it
makes it hard to buy in when someone
dismisses police misconduct issues like
this they're out to protect you and
that's what policing is about our abed
apples here yeah but here's the thing
about that the phrase isn't it's just a
few bad apples don't worry about it the
phrase is a few bad apples spoil the
barrel and we currently have a system
which is set up to ignore bad apples
destroy bad apples records persecute
good apples for speaking up and show
all dangerous emotionally unstable
apples around to the point that children
have to attend key Apple classes you
cannot look at our current situation and
claim that anybody likes them apples